
# Parse SSH config

---

#### Metadata

- *Prelude ID*: 02de522f-7e0a-4544-8afc-0c195f400f5f
- *MITRE Technique ID*: [T1005](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1005/)

---

### A hacker's perspective

---

The SSH configuration file is a shortcut for system administrators and developers to put in long or complex SSH commands that they don't want to type out. Each command describes a way to connect to a remote computer, including the IP address, username and password or SSH key to use for authentication. This file does not exist by default, so you can tell if you are on a technical person's computer right away by checking for it. This is applicable to Linux and MacOS computers, not Windows, which does not (natively or easily) support SSH. I usually attempt to scoop up the contents of this file because if there is anything in it, it's usually a guarantee that I can move laterally onto the computers described in the file.
### Expected output

---

A hacker is attempting to find valid SSH commands (ssh.T1005) by executing this procedure. A valid command is one which allows a successful connection over the SSH protocol.

### Basic variations

---

None. This file could be renamed to something else by a savvy systems administrator but that would be rare. If they do rename it, they would have to reference the new file name in the SSH configuration file (/etc/ssh/sshd_config, on Linux systems). In addition, this procedure is only applicable to Linux and MacOS platforms.

### Prevent + Detect

---

Logging every read activity on the ~/.ssh/config file would be labor intensive and full of false positives. However, ensuring that all users use key-based authentication with a password, not passwords on their own, is a safeguard to disallow the chaining of lateral movement after this procedure. You can create a new public/private key to use with SSH using this command: "ssh-keygen -t rsa". If you use a password to create this key, you will be required to enter it on all subsequent uses (i.e., SSH'ing to a remote computer). Therefore, an attacker would need both the key and password to successfully use the contents of the SSH config file.

### How it is chained

---

The contents of this file are useful for lateral movement. Specific techniques which are likely chaining targets are Lateral Tool Transfer (T1570), Remote Services, SSH (T1021.004) and Remote Service Session Hijacking, specifically the SSH version (T1563.001). In each chain, the goal is the same: the adversary will look to laterally move their RAT from the source computer to the target, therefore opening up their access.
