
# Log keystrokes

---

#### Metadata

- *Prelude ID*: 0ca59b4c-426d-4ad9-a962-1e686b92552c
- *MITRE Technique ID*: [T1056.001](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1056/001/)

---

### A hacker's perspective

---

Running a background keylogger is an effective way to collect passwords and other sensitive data. Ideally, I am able run a keylogger as a background/standalone process outside of my primary implant - even better if it's entirely in memory. This TTP will install and launch a keylogger that runs for 10 minutes and flush the keystrokes to a temporary file every minute. This approach is better for potentially capturing a username and password to escalate privileges without relying on an exploit or noisy local enumeration.

### Expected output

---

A temporary file (file.T1056) is written to %APPDATA$\local\Temp with the output of the keylogger.

### Basic variations

---

PowerSploit's Get-Keystrokes is an entirely in-memory powershell script that leverages the `GetAsyncKeyState` WindowsAPI used in the module for this TTP. The difference being that the powershell script runs entirely in-memory and doesn't require writing a payload to disk. Other exploitation and post-exploitation frameworks like Meterpreter and Cobalt Strike offer similar keylogger functionality for Windows and Linux platforms.
### Prevent + Detect

---

Monitor the Windows API for usage of GetKeyState and GetAsyncKeyState, particularly when it is associated with apowershell process.

### How it is chained

---

After an attacker deploys a keylogger, it is likely they will need to either exfiltrate that data for analysis or perform analysis of that data on target. If a user typed a password into the target on the system, the attacker will likely use those credentials to impersonate the user and (ideally) escalate privileges (T1056.001|T1078.002)/(T1056.001|T1078.003).
