
# Screen Capture

---

#### Metadata

- *Prelude ID*: 316251ed-6a28-4013-812b-ddf5b5b007f8
- *MITRE Technique ID*: [T1113](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1113/)

---

### A hacker's perspective

---

This is a risky and noisy procedure that has a lot of reward, if you attempt to pull it off. Classic risk vs reward. As a surveillance procedure, taking pictures of what is currently displayed on the computer's screen is all about wanting to understand your target better. This procedure is automated, meaning it will take screenshots on schedule, every n-number of seconds. This is a risky procedure because you have two considerations you need to make: 1) Is the volume turned off? If not, the user will hear the "snapshot" of a picture, giving you away. 2) Where are you storing the files? Because screenshots leave artifacts (image files) behind, you need to have a plan for where these will be stored and retrieved later. On the benefit side however, this procedure lets you see exactly what a computer user is doing at any given time, exposing usage patterns, apps used, email content, and anything else that is usually displayed on a computer screen while in use.
### Expected output

---

A full list of all screen shot file images (file.T1113) should print to standard out.

### Basic variations

---

There are several tools that can be used for screenshotting a computer display. For example, on Windows there is a Print Screen button that will do the shot, on MacOS, you can hold down CMD+SHIFT+5 or use the Screenshot utility in Settings and on Linux you can select SHIFT+Print Screen. In addition, there are many photo and video editing programs which will do screenshots, both within the apps as well as on the system itself.
### Prevent + Detect

---

Because of the variations of normal screen-shotting, there is no clear-cut way to detect a malicious one. However, you should look for two things when detecting this: volume and location. If there are a large number of screenshots or they are occurring at a continuous basis (every minute, for example) this can be a sign of malicious activity. In addition, if the screenshots are being placed into a hidden location, such as an admin share or temp directory, this could be another sign you should look closer.
### How it is chained

---

Screenshots are usually part of a greater surveillance operation. In any order, a hacker may attempt to complete other spying actions, such as recording the microphone (T1496), doing an audio capture (T1123), Clipboard Copy (T1115), or any number of sub-techniques under Input Capture (T1056). In addition, expect the hacker to collect the screen shot artifacts from the computer through some type of exfiltration (T1041) procedure.
