
# Find files on removable media

---

#### Metadata

- *Prelude ID*: 385b9f52-3b9a-4f39-b0f0-926cf7625b23
- *MITRE Technique ID*: [T1025](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1025/)

---

### A hacker's perspective

---

Plugged in devices, such as USB drives, usually contain important information. People aren't in the habit of transferring non-important data between computers or storing junk on drives for extended periods of time. For this reason, doing a quick scan of which connected devices are available - containing flash storage - can be fruitful. The one thing I usually need to do is distinguish drives with storage and other connected devices, such as keyboards and mice. While there are some attacks I can do against these peripheral devices, there's a better chance I'm after the stored files. In this procedure, I'm collecting any files (*) which exist on plugged in devices.

### Expected output

---

This procedure should output any discovered, absolute file paths to standard out.

### Basic variations

---

There are many ways to execute this procedure, on various operating systems. What they have in common is looking for mounted drives. Before a computer can use any kind of storage device, the OS must make it accessible through the computer's file system. This process is called mounting. You can only access files on mounted media. Where platforms like Windows and Linux start separating is around the format a mounted drive must be in to be read by the OS. Eitherway, once a drive is mounted, the files can now be iterated over as if they were local to the computer itself.

### Prevent + Detect

---

While you can detect queries to external drives, it can be difficult to distinguish false positives from true malicious attempts. With local and cloud storage so accessible today, it is recommended you block USB and other flash storage completely on computers in your network, to close down this attack vector altogether.

### How it is chained

---

Once an attacker identifies the files on your peripheral devices, they pivot in the same way they would having collected files elsewhere. This usually means some type of Automated Exfiltration (T1020) or Exfiltration Over C2 Channel (T1041)where they will try to steal the files.
