
# Stage collected files

#### Metadata

- *Prelude ID*: 4e97e699-93d7-4040-b5a3-2e906a58199e
- *MITRE Technique ID*: [T1074.001](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1074.001/)

### A hacker's perspective

As part of many exfiltration operations, staging files is a critical task. After identifying files of interest,instead of exfiltrating them where they are, I'll usually copy the file (not move!) to a staging directory thatI have either created or am using on the computer. This staging location is where I put any files I think havevalue and want to steal from the computer. This procedure stages a single file at a time. Note how there are twovariables used in the command, one for the file itself and the other for the staging directory. These are prereqsto me being able to conduct the procedure.

### Expected output

None. This command will not output any standard out.

### Basic variations

Copying a file is a normally benign action. It causes no ill effects. There are several GUI and shell variations ofcopying the file, such as using the Copy-Item or cp utilities on Windows/Unix, or using a programmatic language (likea C-variant or Python) to copy a file on the system.

### Prevent + Detect

Install and enable file-based monitoring to look for a large number of copied files in a short period of time, especiallythose which are initiated by a shell executor such as bash or PowerShell.

### How it is chained

Expect this procedure to be preceded by the creation of a staging directory and the discovery of files. Also,expect this procedure to be run many times in a short period of time, as the adversary stages files they find ofimportance. This time period could be a few seconds or over the course of a day. Following this procedure, you'relikey to see a procedure compressing the staged directory in a final step preceding the directory being stolen offthe computer (T1074|T1005|T1560.001).
