
# Download lambda code package

---

#### Metadata

- *Prelude ID*: 5c4b4fc6-232e-49a4-8255-8b9afe80dca8
- *MITRE Technique ID*: [T1530](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1530)

---

### A hacker's perspective

---

Often times software engineers use AWS Lambda for one-off actions and specific tasks that don't require a full server and only need to run a few times. There's also a larger use case with tools like Serverless and AWS Cloud Development Kit (CDK) where entire applications can be defined as a series of Lambda and API Gateway paths. As a side effect of these approaches, it is possible to find credentials embedded in code packages when improperly locked down. We attack this vulnerability and attempt to extract valuable information from those code packages.
### Expected output

---

cURL command will successful pull down the code package from the URL discovered by other TTPs.

### Basic variations

---

Instead of using cURL, it is possible to use other commands like wget, Invoke-WebRequest, and Invoke-RestMethod to download the code package.

### Prevent + Detect

---

Prevention is far more useful here than detection. Make sure that your IAM policies restrict access to Lambda code packages unless it's absolutely necessary. Also, make use of tools like AWS Secrets Manager and AWS IAM Policies to avoid storing passwords directly in code packages.

### How it is chained

---

This is step one in a privilege escalation attack. Ideally the attacker will find some plaintext credentials in the code package, use those to authenticate with a valid account, then modify AWS policies to either add new permissions to their existing compromised account or a new compromised account (T1078.004|T1530|T1484|T1136.003).
