
# Create new directory

---

#### Metadata

- *Prelude ID*: 6469befa-748a-4b9c-a96d-f191fde47d89
- *MITRE Technique ID*: [T1074](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1074/)

---

### A hacker's perspective

---

One of the quickest ways to get caught as a hacker is to make a lot of noise. Noise, in an adversarial sense, isthe act of creating effects on a compromised computer that call attention to your presence. Understanding what adefensive product or team is looking for helps here. One specific effect that (usually) creates a lot of noise isstealing (exfiltrating) large numbers (both in quantity and byte size) of files. This looks suspicious to automateddefensive tools and is likely to get flagged. Different products use different limits to flag off of, usually acombination of byte size of the file and number of files "moved". Therefore, a common technique I pull out is thisone: I create a staging directory somewhere on the compromised computer and copy the files I want to steal into it.This gives me a central location I can exfiltrate from, compressing the directory before I do so, to make it smaller.By leveraging a staging directory, I can organize exactly what I want to steal. In other words, I shouldn't justtake everything off a compromised computer, I should pick and choose what is valuable to me. Every file I stealraises my "noise" level.

### Expected output

---

The name of the newly created staging directory (directory.T1074) should be output from this procedure.

### Basic variations

---

Instead of thinking of a staging directory as an actual directory, think of it as a database. You are using orcreating a space on the local computer to store the things you are interested in taking. This opens up manypossible variations of this procedure. For instance, the Slack messanger app has a "Files Browser" which allows youto tag and store files you want to come back to. A variation of this procedure may be to create a space withinthat application.

### Prevent + Detect

---

The creation of a directory is a difficult procedure to detect and respond to, as users constantly make new directories on theircomputers. However, you should look at the chain of procedures that occur along with this one and respond to that.

### How it is chained

---

Before or after the creation of a staging directory, expect to see a hacker look for files. Then followingthis procedure, look for the following chain of techniques: staging of the collected files, compressingof the staged directory and exfiltration of the compressed staged directory (T1005|T1074|T1002|T1041).
