
# Find recent files

#### Metadata

- *Prelude ID*: 90c2efaa-8205-480d-8bb6-61d90dbaf81b
- *MITRE Technique ID*: [T1005](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1005/)

### A hacker's perspective

This is one of my favorite collection procedures to run. I'm aiming to find every file that the user has openedin the last 24 hours (or further back, if applicable). This is usually a good indication of what is important. Recentlyopened files tend to have the juicy secrets, such as plain-text password files, financial documents and presentationswhich reflect current work.

### Expected output

The standard out should contain all discovered, absolute file paths (file.T1005).

### Basic variations

The filter by which an adversary locates "recent" files can vary, such as the time limit above or searching basedon file extension or file name. Because there are 1000s of files on computer systems, a filter will be used todetermine what to focus on, and that tends to be the largest variation in this procedure. Another twist on thisprocedure is focusing on .eml (email) files.

### Prevent + Detect

Lots of applications work against the file system, so detecting recently modified files on its own is nearly impossible.Instead, a defender should look at this action, shortly followed up with one of the chained procedures,to quickly identify when a benign action becomes malicious.

### How it is chained

After collecting files of interest, an adversary will usually stage (copy) them to a new location, compress thestaged directory and then exfiltrate the directory to steal the documents (T1074|T1002|T1041). There are a widenumber of variations of these procedures, which you'll learn about in other courses.
