
# Copy Clipboard

---

#### Metadata

- *Prelude ID*: b007fe0c-c6b0-4fda-915c-255bbc070de2
- *MITRE Technique ID*: [T1115](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1115/)

---

### A hacker's perspective

---

This is a command I like to run frequently after compromising a user's computer. Beside being low-resource and fast to execute,it also runs  low chance of getting caught. And the benefits are immense: copying the contents of the clipboardalmost always gives me a wealth of information from passwords to 2FA codes to Personal Identifiable Information (PII). Of course,people also copy junk to their clipboard doing mundane daily tasks. This is why it is good to execute this procedure onschedule, every n-number of minutes (I personally like 10). My hope is to capture the contents after a user copies apassword from a text file or even from a program like LastPass, instead of relying on the secure keychain behavior (auto-login).

### Expected output

---

The string contents of the clipboard should print to console.

### Basic variations

---

Similar to other surveillance procedures, there are many variations to copying or viewing the clipboard contents. OnWindows, there is a clipboard history that stores the last 25 clips that a user made (accessible by clicking the Windows icon + V).As a hacker, you are either after the current clipboard contents or the history of clips.

### Prevent + Detect

---

Because copying/pasting is such a normal user behavior, detecting the behavior itself is worthless. However, as a defender,you can look at the popular variations of shell commands used to do the copy and detect based on those. For example, whilecopy/paste is a normal user behavior, executing the command "Get-Clipboard -raw" from a PowerShell session is not.

### How it is chained

---

This is a general collection and surveillance procedure which is part of an active reconnaissance phase by a hacker.Copying the clipboard could be followed up by any number of procedures, based on what the actual contents are. However,you should expect this procedure to be grouped in a series of similar recon commands under the Collection tactic.
