
# Compress Files with 7zip

---

#### Metadata

- *Prelude ID*: fd27fe6c-4846-4e94-aef9-f6bc21ab0f0e
- *MITRE Technique ID*: [T1560.001](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1560/001)

---

### A hacker's perspective

---

When I am ready to exfiltrate data from a network or potentially encrypt files on a target system for a ransomware attack, I'm going to leverage either an existing on-target compression executable/library, or I'm going to pull down a standalone executable. 7zip as a standalone binary allows me to combine and compress data for exfiltration in order to minimize the amount of data egressing a network.  It will also allow me to encrypt data in-place if I'm attempting to destroy or ransom particular data on a system.

### Expected output

---

An 'ad.7z' file (file.T1560) containing the contents of the target directory.

### Basic variations

---

7zip is a cross-platform compression technology, but there are several other compression technologies that fulfill the same purpose. On OS X platforms, tools like Unarchiver or the built-in Archive Utility can be used to compress data. Linux variants typically have the zip and unzip binaries installed by default. On Windows platforms you can leverage the built-in powershell Compress-Archive command, manually load the System.IO.Compress.ZipArchive class from the.NET framework and write a small function to compress the data, use WinRAR, or any number of other compression tools.

### Prevent + Detect

---

Establish a software baseline to and perform periodic software audits on endpoints to detect if 7zip (or similar) binaries have been downloaded to a system. Configuration management tools like puppet can maintain a software baseline and heavier approaches like Application Whitelisting can prevent the execution of unauthorized binaries.

### How it is chained

---

This technique is typically used as a precursor to exfiltration or impact tactics. Compression via 7zip might allow an attacker to exfiltrate via their existing command and control channel (T1041) or through an external proxy (T1090.002) depending on their approach. It could also be used directly as an impact command by encrypting data for impact (T1486).
