
# Change wallpaper

---

#### Metadata

- *Prelude ID*: 20660552-4151-4991-afaa-2af481f6da43
- *MITRE Technique ID*: [T1491.001](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1491/001/)

---

### A hacker's perspective

---

Sometimes you want to let your target know you were there without actually damaging a system.Or even better, by swapping out the desktop background on several systems, I can saturate an organization's IT Help Desk and Security Operations Center (SOC) with benign, yet legitimate malicious activity to address. This could cover more specific and malicious activity I want to perform, or just impose costs on that specific network. 

### Expected output

---

Desktop wallpaper on target system is set to a random cat. 

### Basic variations

---

Basic defacement can take many forms. This script can easily be tweak to be a specific image versus a random cat. 

### Prevent + Detect

---

This particular script depends on users being able to reach out to PyPi repositories. Unless your users have a reason to access development repositories, you should block access to them. Most importantly, data should be backed up in the event of defacement so recovery is straight-forward. 

### How it is chained

---

Interal defacement will completely give away an adversary's presence on a network, so typically this action is only taken after all other adversary objectives are completed. That being said, using internal defacement to cover other actions is possible; an adversary might deface desktops to drop a completely unrelated web shell persistence (T1505.003) before egressing the network. 
