
# Quit application

#### Metadata

- *Prelude ID*: 3b007f46-23e7-4a11-9c14-e7085b6a754a
- *MITRE Technique ID*: [T1491](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1491/)

### A hacker's perspective

Impact procedures are usually a last-resort, ditch effort when I want to exit an environment without caring if I'mseen or not. This procedure is no different: I am force closing an installed application. I would typicallycomplete a command like this because either I need the app to restart to take advantage of a configurationchange I made or this is a link in a chain of destructive procedures I'm running simultaneously. In the latter case,I could be force closing various applications and destroying the database(s) fueling them. Or I may be breaking theapplications to put them into an endless loop when they restart. Or I may be injecting my agent into the application,which will take effect on the next reboot of the app. In any case, this is a delicate procedure to execute, as itwill be noticed. Hopefully, most people will disregard the closure as a "bug" and just attempt to restart it. Butit is something to be mindful of before executng this (or really any) impact procedure.

### Expected output

None. This command will not output any standard out.

### Basic variations

For variations, there are two types: program quit and technical way we did the quitting. For the first case, in this procedure we usethe variable app.T1518 as the app we want to quit. This will get replaced in real-time with an application name, ascollected by any previously run T1082 procedure. This could reasonably be any valid application name. In the second case,there are a few ways to force-kill an app. On Windows and MacOS, you can easily open a "CMD+ALT+DELETE" window and see/killany running application. Programmatically, you can leverage any shell executor to complete the action as well.

### Prevent + Detect

A single force-kill is not a big deal. These occur all the time. You should look for several kills in a row as a sign ofmalicious activity.

### How it is chained

Impact procedures tend to be bunched together in quick succession, so look for this in an almost parallel chain. Alsolook for a chain which includes some Software Discovery (T1518) before this procedure is executed. This may help identify themalicious attack earlier, so you don't need to wait for several impact effects.
