
# Leave note

---

#### Metadata

- *Prelude ID*: 47d08617-5ce1-424a-8cc5-c9c978ce6bf9
- *MITRE Technique ID*: [T1491](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1491/)

---

### A hacker's perspective

---

This procedure is intended to be noticed. I am dropping a note for the computer user to see, open and freak out. At this point in my hack, I want them to know I have compromised their computer, their accounts and to ensure they have proof. I create a text file so I can prove this, along with a natural location for putting instructions for the user to do something. Most of the time, I'll use this to instruct the user how to pay me a ransom to decrypt previously encrypted files. This is the end of a ransomware hack. I'll want to put this file in a noticeable location on their computer and draw their attention to it. I may follow this up by actually opening the file for them, so it'll display on screen. The key here is to leave instructions for the user to do something. 

### Expected output

---

None. This command will not output any usable standard out. 

### Basic variations

---

Linux (and MacOS by extension) has a popular phrase that "everything is a file", meaning the operating system is centered around the concept of file objects. Plug a USB in? Linux treats it as a file object. Create a directory? Same thing. Windows is the same, to some effect, but has a few other hierarchies of objects that are clearly non-file (such as the registry). Because of this file-based concept built into operating systems (OS), there are countless variations when creating a new file. This is a constant function happening on a computer, whether you are physically creating a file or not - applications and actions you take are constantly creating file-like objects for the OS. 

### Prevent + Detect

---

Because files are central to every operating system, detecting the creation of a new file is a fool's errand. At the point this procedure is executed, it's likely too late to detect and respond to the hacker, as this is a final step which is meant to not only be detected programmatically (through defensive analytics) but to be a neon sign for the computer user to see and "detect" on their own. 

### How it is chained

---

You're likely to see one of two things alongside this procedure: either it running (relatively) on its own as a defacement action (T1491) or as part of a larger ransomware attack (T1486). 
