
# Record room audio using microphone

#### Metadata

- *Prelude ID*: 78524da1-f347-4fbb-9295-209f1f408330
- *MITRE Technique ID*: [T1496](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1496/)

### A hacker's perspective

One of my favorite surveillance procedures: recording the microphone. It is amazing what you can pick up by recordingthe mic of a computer for an extended period of time. Sure, many people work in quiet, listening to music or just typing.But, most people eventually hop on a video conferencing call, take a private 1-on-1 call or have a co-worker walk by theirdesk for a conversation, or in our common Work From Home (WFH) coronavirus setups, a spouse.

### Expected output

The absolute file path of the recording file should print to console.

### Basic variations

There are two things which need to occur to record the microphone: 1) there needs to be recording software installed onthe computer and 2) the software needs to be started/active. On the former, there are a few recording packages installedon operating systems by default, such as the Voice Recorder on a Windows 10+ computer. In the later case, the startingof the recording software will vary largely based on what package is doing the recording. Some can only be initiatedfrom a GUI (desktop app) while others can be controlled through shell executors, such as Bash or PowerShell.

### Prevent + Detect

You can certainly detect if there are any non-whitelisted applications currently recording. Start by creating a whitelistof the applications that you are OK having recording capabilities, such as the video conferencing programs your companyuses. Next, ensure you track any other application that attempts to record. This will catch the majority of bad actorsusing variations of this procedure. Another approach is to flag any audio files that are created. Unless your businesscommonly does audio/video work, it is probably uncommon that staff will be creating custom .wav or .mp3 files consistently.

### How it is chained

Most variations of this procedure will record for n-minutes, then dump the recording to a file and attempt to exfiltrateit. The audio recording will likely be written to a non-descript location, such as the TEMP directory. A hacker will thenlikely scoop it up in a Data Staged procedure (T1074) and very likely an Archive Collected Data procedure (T1560) in orderto make the (usually large) recording file smaller.
