
# Non-encryption ransomware

---

#### Metadata

- *Prelude ID*: 7b838910-0dd8-4d8c-ab85-51ba44b7682c
- *MITRE Technique ID*: [T1561](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1561/)

---

### A hacker's perspective

---

Ransomware has become almost synonymous with cyber security attacks. Due to the mainstream media's nearly obsessive covering of this technique, when most people think about cyber security they think "ransomware". Why? My guess is ransomware is easy to understand for the layperson. A thief gains access to your computer, encrypts all your files and holds them "ransom" -  a concept not dissimilar to the hacking you see in block-buster Hollywood movies. Because of this focus, defensive cyber security products have reacted by over-protecting against ransomware (and building massive marketing strategies to boot). Antivirus and EDR applications focus on two aspects of ransomware attacks: encryption and timing. If files are being encrypted at a rapid pace, it must be ransomware - and the defensive apps will respond. Using off-the-shelf encryption in most software languages will engage "system calls" which defensive products can monitor for malicious behavior. As an attacker, I am aware of this and need to find a way around.  One option may be to simply slow down my ransomware attack. Instead of encrypting files quickly, I could aim to encrypt a file every 5 or 10 seconds. That may do the trick and get around the defense. But going at a turtles pace may not work in my favor because the  computer user has plenty of time to respond. Another option is to avoid encryption alltogether. In this TTP, I opt for this approach  by exfiltrating the files from a particular directory first then - for each stolen file - I replace the contents with my ransom note.   At this point, when the user opens a file they'll now be presented with my instructions for payment - and I avoided using encryption. 

### Expected output

---

This attack will print DEBUG logs to console and ultimately "steal" files from the computer (sending them to my C2) before wiping the   file contents. The DEBUG logs are my output in this case.  

### Basic variations

---

There are several creative alternatives to this approach (to avoid encryption). One may be to move files to the recycling bin after stealing  them (or a hidden directory) so they appear missing.  

### Prevent + Detect

---

This attack shares one thing in common with the encrypted version of ransomware: it starts by locating and iterating through the files within  n-number of directories. To detect this, you should look at any programmatic file iteration. 

### How it is chained

---

Immediately before running this procedure, I'm likely to run a command to locate important directories on the system. This procedure itself  contains a payload with the following kill chain: T1083|T1041|T1561. 
