
# Kill a process

#### Metadata

- *Prelude ID*: 8ccaa1ca-6b2d-4a1f-8667-9c5df1ec07f3
- *MITRE Technique ID*: [T1489](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1489/)

### A hacker's perspective

Stopping processes and services is useful in many situations. I can disable defensive tools by stopping the processesthat are either collecting or sending data to a SIEM. Or, I can stop critical services like exchange, DNS, and so on tocreate a denial of service in the target network. This kind of attack is particularly dangerous in Industrial ControlSystems (ICS) and Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA) systems; I could potentially disable security mechanismsand cause actual damage to a hardware system depending on the attack. This has serious implications when, for example, those hardwaresystems are power distribution centers for entire regions or medical devices keeping patients alive.

### Expected output

Standard out will return a table that shows the processes that were stopped.

### Basic variations

A very simple variation of this is using the DOS command version `taskkill /IM "#{process.T1057}" /F` to kill a processby name. It is also possible to stop a process by PID using `taskkill /F /PID #{process.ID}`.

### Prevent + Detect

Command line telemetry will help detect usage of the Get-Process command, but that will have many false positives tosift through. Monitoring calls to Stop-Process might be a good alternative, but that would be after the process is alreadystopped. In general, you want to catch the adversary prior to their impact stage.

### How it is chained

Adveraries will stop critical processes prior to attacking underlying data stores for those processes (T1489|T1485).An adversary might also attempt to stop processes for security tools prior to more "noisy" actions like data exfiltrationor credential dumping techniques (T1489|T1567.002) (T1489|T1003).
