
# Download pneuma

---

#### Metadata

- *Prelude ID*: 5f9001dc-e179-451f-bbd1-9fb4466d7057
- *MITRE Technique ID*: [T1544](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1544/)

---

### A hacker's perspective

---

Getting your agent or Remote Access Trojan (RAT) downloaded and started on a computer is the first step of compromise.This can either be part of your initial access work or a lateral movement tactic (replicating your access to anothercomputer in the network). Either way the goal is the same: download a piece of malware to a target computer and start it.By doing this, you can get Remote Code Execution (RCE) on the computer - meaning you have the ability to run arbitrarycommands on a whim.

### Expected output

---

None. No usable output should be printed to console but this procedure should result in a new agent beaconing to the C2.

### Basic variations

---

There are an infinite number of types of agents, connection protocols (how the agent talks to the Command and Control (C2)and ways to download the agent. For types of agents, they can be file-based (such as the pneuma agent), memory-based (livingonly in RAM) or part of an already installed program. For connection protocols, the pneuma agent can talk to the C2over TCP, UDP and HTTP. These are direct communications, where the agent talks directly to the C2. However, agents can alsocommunicate indirectly over things like blog posts or Twitter feeds. Finally, there are many ways to download the agent inthe first place. In this procedure, popular shell utilities (such as cURL) are used. There are many direct and indirect waysto complete file downloads.

### Prevent + Detect

---

To get an agent running, the hacker will first need to initiate the download, so to detect this procedure, start there. Consider detecting based onfile extension downloaded and immediately created (such as the download or creation of an .exe file). Also, ensure you are usinga whitelist/blacklist, which will allow you to flag or block outbound requests to known suspicious IP addresses. Your antivirusshould also pick up and quarantine any known malware files using signature-based analytics. Finally, if you haven't detected thedownload or existence of the malware, when it starts it will most likely attempt to make a connection to it's C2. You can lookfor immediate file downloads and pings to untrusted outbound websites. Look for insecure connections which shield the data packetsthrough some type of encryption or encoding. A hacker is likely to leverage insecure connections (think not HTTPS) because they willlook to avoid installing new certificates, which is a noisy action.

### How it is chained

---

After a hacker downloads and starts their agent, all bets are off in terms of exactly what procedure they will startexecuting. It would be common to see some type of recon tactics used, either discovery or collection based.One particular procedure that you may commonly see executed is "whoami" (T1033), which a hacker will execute in orderto confirm which user account they have "popped" (compromised).
