
# Copy agent over SMB

---

#### Metadata

- *Prelude ID*: 6f12b05c-7b47-4609-9b36-c3cbddec9412
- *MITRE Technique ID*: [T1021.002](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1021/002/)

---

### A hacker's perspective

---

Once I've completed local reconnaisance on a system, I will make a determination on where I need to go next. Rarelydo I only need access to a single system so I will want to start moving laterally to expand my foothold in the network.Server Message Block (SMB) is extremely common network traffic so using it to move data between systems is an effectiveway to hide my traffic.

### Expected output

---

Standard out response indicating a new share has been mounted and 1 file has been copied.

### Basic variations

---

SMB shares can be mounted in several different ways, such as calling the powershell New-PSDrive or New-SMBMapping(depending on which version of powershell is available on the system). Additionally, other tools like PSExec will mapSMB shares as part of the process for executing code on remote systems. More sophisicated attackers will write customcode to mount shares and copy data or use alternative methodologies.

### Prevent + Detect

---

Logging commands, specifically uses of "net use" is a good way to detect network share mounting that might not be legitimate.

### How it is chained

---

After a payload is moved to a remote host, adversaries will typically want to execute that payload. You might find SMBmoves followed by service execution (T1569.002) or Windows Management Instrumentation (T1047) execution techniques.
