
# WMI Ransomware Distribution

---

#### Metadata

- *Prelude ID*: b393c022-329a-4c52-ab1f-eb594ee8d3cd
- *MITRE Technique ID*: [T1570](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1570/)

---

### A hacker's perspective

---

Windows Management Instrumentation Command-line (WMIC) is a useful "live-off-the-land" binary for interfacing with WMI on local and remote systems. I can use it to rapidly stage payloads across multiple systems by having the remote system copy a payload over using Server Message Block (SMB) shares then later execute that payload - all using WMIC. Having a deep understanding of WMI is extremely useful when attacking Windows systems and enterprise networks. There are APIs for just about all Windows internals and it is installed by default on all Windows desktop and server platforms. 

### Expected output

---

No local output is generated, but a file will be copied and staged in the remote node's C:\Windows\Temp directory. 

### Basic variations

---

This particular command is essentially triggering the remote host to perform a network copy, which is similar to simply executing `copy C:\%target% \\#{ip.T1135}\c$\Windows\temp` from the current host. Once difference between the commands,  however, is this variant would require you to be on the system that you are copying from. The version provided in the TTP would allow you to stage a payload on a network share, then have multiple hosts pull the agent down. 

### Prevent + Detect

---

WMI requires administrative rights, so the principle of least privilege should be followed when configuring administrator accounts. If there is command-line and PowerShell telemetry available, write an analytic to track user authentication attempts against hostnames or IP addresses. Capturing multiple authentication attempts (success or failure) across multiple hosts using the same credentials should trigger an alert for potentially malicious behavior. Couple that analytic with historical comparison of WMI command utilization of a particular user or on a particular machine. Anomolies in either dataset could indicate malicious activity. 

### How it is chained

---

Once an adversary is laterally transfering tools, the next step is almost certainly executing that payload on the remote system. Code execution can be achieved through WMI (T1047), service execution (T1569.002), or possibly a scheduled task (T1053.005). There are multiple methods beyond those for executing that payload, so check the threat intelligence related to threat actors that are known to target your organization. 
