
# Dump LSASS memory

---

#### Metadata

- *Prelude ID*: 0ef4cc7b-611c-4237-b20b-db36b6906554
- *MITRE Technique ID*: [T1003.001](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1003/001/)

---

### A hacker's perspective

---

Up until around 2016, the Mimikatz password-dumping tool worked wonderfully. You could use it on a wide array of Windows computers to dump credentials stored in memory. It worked like this: download the Mimikatz program and run it on a pre-Windows 10 computer. The program would exploit Windows single sign-on (SSO) functionality to harvest credentials. But I digress. You can learn more about Mimikatz in a different challenge. The take away here, is that the tool stopped working (all intents and purposes) when Windows 10. From that point forward, any time you even use the word "mimikatz" on a computer, red-flags will pop everywhere and the computer will stop you. Gone was the quick way of dumping credentials. A solution soon emerged, which was to dump the in-memory contents of LSASS.exe (Local Security Authority Subsystem Service) and feed that memory dump into an adversary-owned computer with mimikatz avaialble, where the tool can be used effectively to dump credentials from the "snapshot". This procedure executes this in a 2-step action: 1) It downloads ProcDump, which is a signed Microsoft utility, unlikely to be blocked and then 2) It runs a ProcDump command to dump LSASS to disk. From here, I'll still need to run mimikatz against the results. But that's for another challenge. 

### Expected output

---

I would expect to get the LSASS memory dumped to disk. 

### Basic variations

---

Aside from ProcDump, there are several other ways to dump LSASS to disk. The Mini-Dump (PowerSploit) utility is one. It has a higher risk of getting caught, as most PowerSploit scripts are well-known at this point. Dumpert (https://github.com/outflanknl/Dumpert) is another recent tool which does the LSASS dump. And you can leverage the native comsvcs.dll DLL found in Windows\system32 with rundll32 to do a similar dump. 

### Prevent + Detect

---

Alert if you see ProcDump downloaded or run. ProcDump is a signed binary but nowadays it runs a high risk of being used maliciously. Additionally, because LSASS stores valuable information, you should log any events touching the lsass.exe, especially if they are triggered by a shell (PowerShell or command line). 

### How it is chained

---

This procedure on its own won't do any harm - you have to see what the adversary does with it next. They're likely to either run Mimikatz (T1003) against the dump file directly on the computer. But because this is likely to get caught by basic antivirus, they're more likely to immediately try to exfiltrate the dump file back to their command-and-control center (T1041). Prior to executing this procedure, the hacker also likely attempted to turn off Windows Defender (T1089), which has been getting smarter at identifying these attacks in the moment. 
