
# Sniff network traffic

---

#### Metadata

- *Prelude ID*: 1b4fb81c-8090-426c-93ab-0a633e7a16a7
- *MITRE Technique ID*: [T1040](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1040/)

---

### A hacker's perspective

---

"Sniffing traffic" means to look under the covers at the packets sent from your computer to other computers, whether in your network or over the internet. You've heard of SSL and this is where it becomes important (among other encrypted traffic libraries for varying protocols). Generically speaking, SSL encrypts traffic enroute. If you're using HTTP instead, this traffic is unencrypted, meaning you (or someone else in your network) may be able to "sniff" the unencrypted packets being sent from your computer. Let's say you're logging into an HTTP website portal. Your username and password would be sent, unencrypted, from your laptop to the server. Anyone sniffing your traffic at the moment you click 'submit' may get eyes on your plain-text credentials. Neat trick, right? Most operating systems have built-in utilities which can do this sniffing, such as tcpdump (MacOS/Linux) and New-NetEventSession (Windows). This allows an attacker to sniff your traffic without needing to install a 3rd party library. Aside from credentials, sniffing traffic can also yield other important pieces of information, whether the data is encrypted or not. An attacker may just be curious what other computers yours commmunicates with. They can see any website you're interfacing with and the timestamps of your web surfing behavior. One thing I look for, aside from credentials, are unsavory websites visited. These can be very useful in ransomware attacks, as you now have something "on" an individual. 

### Expected output

---

A list of connections, each one containing at least one match on a username or password. 

### Basic variations

---

Because network sniffing utilities are built into most operating systems, it makes sense for an attacker to leverage them vs installing a new one. However, there are many to choose from if installing. One of the most popular is a Python library called scapy, which can be installed on most computers without root access, using just "pip install scapy". This library allows a hacker to programmatically write a script, interacting with the network packets, and may be more difficult to detect. 

### Prevent + Detect

---

First, always use SSL. Most browsers will allow you to set SSL-always-on, ensuring that you cannot accidently browse to an HTTP website when an SSL one is available. Second, note that sniffers can run in either promiscuous or non-promiscuous mode, the former being the more powerful and therefore more common. Luckily, you can detect a promiscuous-mode sniffer pretty easily by keeping tabs on your network interfaces. For example, on MacOS and Linux you can can simply search for "ifconfig -a" and look for any network interface with PROMISC in the flag. Lastly, sniffing libraries tend to be CPU-intensive, so look for computers which are spiking unusually in resources used. This might be an indication of a sniffer running. 

### How it is chained

---

Network sniffing, specifically for credential access, would indicate that the hacker is in the credential dumping phase of their attack. They likely performed Remote System Discovery (T1018) procedures ahead of this, such as an ARP scan. They are also likely conducting some more active credential dumping probes, such as OS Credential Dumping (T1003) sub-techniques like Mimikatz or LSASS memory dumps. You may also see additional passive dumping attempts, such as Input Capture (T1056), where an attacker is monitoring the user's action, waiting for them to enter credentials through their normal activities. 
