
# PasswordVault dump

---

#### Metadata

- *Prelude ID*: 3822a0c8-1bac-422f-9ce0-e079b11e6f90
- *MITRE Technique ID*: [T1552.001](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1552/001/)

---

### A hacker's perspective

---

System Administrators (SysAdmins) will attempt to optimize and automate as many workflows as possible in their work environment; a SysAdmin that cannot automate will not be able to scale operations. Part of that automatation necessitates storing credentials for automating authentication to local and remote systems. I can leverage that knowledge and scrape likely places those credentials might get stored. In this case, I'm looking at the Windows PasswordVault for passwords that have been stored in the powershell PasswordVault - a likely location for automation related credentials. By loading in the PasswordVault, I can retrieve all the passwords my current user has access to and dump out the resource, username, and passwords stored there. 

### Expected output

---

JSON formatted output of the resources, usernames, and passwords stored in the Powershell PasswordVault. 

### Basic variations

---

Look for credentials in other easy to access locations. Web browsers often store credentials and there are tools for dumping the credential store from browsers like chrome and firefox. Metasploit's meterpreter offers a built-in capability to accomplish that and there are numerous powershell scripts available for dumping credentials from browsers as well. 

### Prevent + Detect

---

Command line telemetry is important for detecting this. Because passwordvaults are specific to the application or service that is storing the password, an attack would need to execute these commands using powershell or obfuscated powershell. They might also choose to execute a .NET assembly variant (CSharp) in the powershell session to grab credentials from the passwordvault. Detect when System.Security.Credentials.PasswordVault is called in a powershell session. 

### How it is chained

---

Now that an adversary is dumping credentials, they will be looking to escalate privileges, persist at higher privileges, and move laterally to new targets. Since they are trying trying to dump get credentials from a files, likely privilege escalations will be using valid acounts (T1078) to login locally or remotely as different users. 
