
# Credentials in Registry

#### Metadata

- *Prelude ID*: 3aad5312-d48b-4206-9de4-39866c12e60f
- *MITRE Technique ID*: [T1214](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1214/)

### A hacker's perspective

Windows computers are powered by the registry, a database containing all the configuration rules and data requiredto power the machine. If the computer is a run-of-the-mill laptop, the registry is predictable, as Windows usesdefault configurations for different versions, such as Windows 10. If the computer is part of a company domain,the IT team likely has overwritten several important registry entries, and likely monitors and protects eachperson's computer, in part through these modifications. The registry is organized by a concept called hives. Thinkof a hive as a bucket containing a subset of configuration data. Windows systems have 4-6 hives, depending on yourversion. In this procedure, I am querying a (variable) hive, looking recursively (/s) for anything matching a pattern (/f)of the word password. Obviously, I'm looking to extract plain-text passwords stored directly in any registry keystored in specific hives. In some cases, I can get passwords to local programs through this simple query.

### Expected output

I would expect to get a list of passwords and the corresponding programs they belong to.

### Basic variations

Normal variations to a registry query would be to replace the hive variable with an exact hive you want to search.The most likely candidates to replace the hive variable when searching for passwords would be either HKCU and HKLM. Theformer represents the currently logged in user's personal configuration data and the latter represents the computeritself, primarily the locally installed computer software configurations. In testing this procedure, BitDefenderflagged it when it was run with the "/t REG_SZ" parameter, meaning we were attempting to filter based on a registrytype (/t) of descriptions (REG_SZ).

### Prevent + Detect

Block any registry query looking for passwords. You can flag such queries by looking at 'reg query' in any commandand filtering by those including the word 'password'. This is a clear sign of foul play.

### How it is chained

Determining whether the compromised computer is part of a Windows domain or is a standalone machine shouldpreceed this procedure, as it will impact what a hacker should expect, both in return data as well as protections.They are likely to do that through Remote System Discovery (T1018). If the hacker is running this procedure, they'realso likely to run a variety of Query Registry (T1012) commands, which may look for other, non-credential registrydata. Finally, since the hacker is looking for credentials, they're likely interested in lateral movement, so lookfor them to attempt pivoting to other machines in the domain, if applicable.
