
# Dump history

---

#### Metadata

- *Prelude ID*: 422526ec-27e9-429a-995b-c686a29561a4
- *MITRE Technique ID*: [T1552.003](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1552/003/)

---

### A hacker's perspective

---

This is one of my all time favorite procedures to run against a technical person's computer (think sysadmin, software engineer, IT pro). Tech people live at the terminal and often never think about the footprints they leave behind. Every command that is manually executed from a terminal is logged to a hidden file (.) on disk, on MacOS and Linux. If an engineer SSH's to a remote computer, I can capture their command and replicate it. If they enter a password, I can scoop it up. If they use the AWS CLI to connect to cloud resources, I can get perfect visibility into their credentials and cloud assets. The history file is gold, if discovered on the correct computer. Because it is low risk and high reward, this is a must-run procedure. 

### Expected output

---

A fairly lengthly output is expected, containing one row per command executed. 

### Basic variations

---

Different operating systems have different default terminal programs and (a small percentage) of people will override the default and install their favorite program. For example, there are two popular terminal programs available on Linux and MacOS, bash and zsh. They operate largely the same but are two distinct programs, writing history to .zsh_history and .bash_history, respectively. MacOS used bash by default prior to Catalina 10.15 and zsh after that. 

### Prevent + Detect

---

Set a policy to block logging terminal history to file. In the majority of cases, this should cause no issue or even be noticed by most users, even highly technical ones. 

### How it is chained

---

There are a number of phases in an attack where an adversary is likely to execute this procedure. Most of the time, they're looking to identify resources for lateral movement or they're looking for unsecured credentials sitting in plain sight. In either case, expect this to be linked to lateral movement Remote Services procedures, specifically those which would usually be initiated through a terminal, such as SSH (T1021.004) or Windows Remote Management (T1021.006). Also look for Remote Service Session Hijacking, specifically SSH Hijacking (T1563.001), as that is a terminal initiated behavior. 
