
# Dump LSASS Process Memory

---

#### Metadata

- *Prelude ID*: 43287014-4564-45e2-be93-94461df1b53d
- *MITRE Technique ID*: [T1003.001](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1003/001/)

---

### A hacker's perspective

---

Running scripts via a shell executor is usually a surefire way to get caught. Most teams have script block logging and check for the execution of powershell scripts or bash commands. We can circumvent this by working directly with the Operating System API to achieve our objective. On a windows system, this means making calls directly to the Windows API to achieve our objectives. On *nix systems, that means making system calls directly or leveraging internal libraries. In this example, we have a *demonstration only* version of how to dump LSASS memory using the MiniDumpWriteDump function in the Windows API. 

### Expected output

---

A temporary file is created with a memory dump from LSASS. 

### Basic variations

---

There is a better version of this that leverages the PPSSnapShot function to create a snapshot of LSASS then calls MiniDumpWriteDump against that snapshot. This is the method used by ProcDump when the `-r` flag is used. This solution is better because instead of dumping memory directly from lsass, we are using native API calls to dump memory from a snapshot of lsass. An even better variant is using a tool call Dumpert, which unhooks windows API calls and uses direct system calls to run an in-memory LSASS credential dump that bypasses normal AV/EDR solutions. 

### Prevent + Detect

---

bd6095e6-e70b-4c44-8059-eebfc0d54f4e

### How it is chained

---

A more advanced adversary will use a tool like WdToggle to enable WDigest credential caching on a system, then load a tool in memory (like dumpert) to dump LSASS memory. Once an adversary has dumped memory from lsass.exe, the next step will be exfiltrating the dump file and attempting to get hashes or plain-text credentials from the memory dump that can be used for pass the hash and other persistence (T1041|T1003.001|T1136) or lateral movement actions (T1041|T1003.001|T1550.002). 
