
# Prompt for user credentials

---

#### Metadata

- *Prelude ID*: 4c4bfafd-7767-4386-a1ee-dcf66cf466e5
- *MITRE Technique ID*: [N/A](N/A)

---

### A hacker's perspective

---

Often the best way for me to get access to resources on your computer and on your company's (or home!) network is simply tricking you into giving me your password. This takes less of my time and doesn't require any complex attacks or difficult "hacking." If I present you and your colleagues with a legitimate looking credential prompt, eventually I will find the right prompt that gets someone to submit their password. Once I have that password, I can become you and start using your accesses to accomplish more objectives using different TTPs. 

### Expected output

---

Javascript Object Notation (JSON) data that contains your plaintext password on success. It would look like: {"password": "<YOUR_PASSWORD"}. 

### Basic variations

---

This was just a simple generic pop-up using built-in system tools. For windows, it uses the Windows Security pop-up so it looks somewhat legitimate, but it doesn't automatically populate your username. If I want to make this less suspicious, I would actually overwrite a file somewhere on your computer with a custom file. When you click it, you would get a fully realistic credential prompt asking you to put in your password before opening the file. 

### Prevent + Detect

---

The only way to reliably prevent this type of attack is by always staying aware while using your computer. If there is a suspicious credential prompt, err on the side of caution and do not submit your password. For enterprise security teams, educate your teammates on how to spot suspicious pop-ups. When in doubt, click out. 

### How it is chained

---

This chains directly with an alert TTP that shows the user of the computer that their credentials have been compromised and they need to reset their password (T1105|T1056.002|T1565.003). Typically an attack is going to use the credentials to establish legitimate persistence (T1105|T1056.002|T1078). 
