
# WCE Credential Access

---

#### Metadata

- *Prelude ID*: 97412b40-4940-4da1-8bff-6f11d42bca26
- *MITRE Technique ID*: [T1003.001](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1003/001/)

---

### A hacker's perspective

---

Once I have administrative credentials on a Windows enterprise, I'm to try to escalate those privileges to an account that has Domain Administrator privileges. One way I will try to find credentials is by leveraging a tool like Mimikatz or Windows Credential Editor (WCE) to dump credentials (of various kinds) from memory to try to find new accounts with new credentials. I can then use those credentials to pass-the-hash and logon to other systems and potentially generate a Golden Ticket. 

### Expected output

---

Text file containing plain-text passwords stored by the digest authorization package. 

### Basic variations

---

Depending up the type of information that is need to progress further in the attack, there are other options available in the WCE binary for grabbing Kerberos tickets, performing pass-the-hash attacks, executing commands in a different session given NTLM credentials, and more. There are also other tools like MimiKatz that provide similar functionality to WCE. 

### Prevent + Detect

---

WCE is a popular tool which means that it has been thoroughly signatured by Anti-Virus (AV) and Endpoint Detection and Response (EDR) vendors and easily blocked. That doesn't stop more sophisticated attackers from creating variants that are not signatured however.  Defenders can use SysMon to find ProcessAccess events (event ID 10) associated with the lsass.exe process to detect whenever a process attaches to the process, and CreateRemoteThread events (event ID 8) for when WCE creates a thread in the lsass.exe process. 

### How it is chained

---

Dumping plain-text passwords can be done for a number of reasons. An attacker might want to create a new local account (T1136.001) or new domain account (T1136.002) that can be used to log in later. A different attacker might use those credentials to move laterally a new system using a common protocol that might be in use on the target network, such as the remote desktop protocol (T1021.001). Given credentials with appropriate permissions, attackers could also impair defenses (T1562) in a variety of ways or gather information from the local system (T1005) or shared network resources (T1039). 
