
# RockYou password finder

---

#### Metadata

- *Prelude ID*: b6784cd5-d47a-4a9f-856f-320853c6635f
- *MITRE Technique ID*: [T1552.001](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1552/001)

---

### A hacker's perspective

---

Kali Linux, the popular operating system used by many in offensive security, includes a file by default: rockyou.txt.Inside this file are billions of passwords which were part of password dumps in the past. This makes for a great starterfile for attempting brute force password guessing. In this procedure, I am doing two things: first I locate all fileswhich include "pass" in the filename (hoping to find a password file) and second, I am checking if any words inside thefound files are also in rockyou.txt. If yes, I print them to console. This allows me to quickly locate probable passwordsa user may store on their computer in CSV files, text files or other plain-text locations.

### Expected output

---

A list of probable password (password.T1552.001) strings.

### Basic variations

---

There are many password lists available online and often after a public breach occurs the passwords are published onPaste Bin and then put into a password list on a GitHub repo. See the resources for a few of these. Additionally, anattacker may look for different types of files to locate passwords, such as text files, word docs or they may just searchthe entire disk, instead of filtering based on those with "pass" in the filename.

### Prevent + Detect

---

Don't bother detecting this one, just prevent it by never, ever storing plain-text passwords on your computers. Usea password manager.

### How it is chained

---

An attacker will likely attempt to validate and or use the gained passwords. One such attack could be an attackerchecking if a password is the root password on the computer itself then attempting to spawn a privileged agenton the machine (T1110.001|T1078.003).
