
# Dump LSASS via ProcDump

---

#### Metadata

- *Prelude ID*: bd6095e6-e70b-4c44-8059-eebfc0d54f4e
- *MITRE Technique ID*: [T1003.001](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1003/001/)

---

### A hacker's perspective

---

It's fair to say that everyone in the cybersecurity community has either heard of Mimikatz or generally knows that it is possible to "dump credentials from memory" in Windows. What many people don't know is that SysInternals has a tool called ProcDump that provides a way to dump process memory for later analysis in Mimikatz off the target system. This strategy allows us to use trusted Windows binaries versus putting malware onto a target system. That being said, this approach will still get caught by many EDR solutions and ATT&CK behavior detections that are looking for processes attaching to `lsass.exe`. Ensure you disable logging or temporarily turn off security mechanisms before using this tool to dump credentials from memory. 

### Expected output

---

`lsass_dump.dmp` file will contain the contents of the lsass.exe process memory. 

### Basic variations

---

The vast majority of process memory dumpers all leverage the same Windows MiniDumpWriteDump API. It is easy to write a new binary that calls that same API and set the proper flags to access the memory areas you need from lsass.exe. An example of a Golang based variant can be found in the Caldera stockpile. 

### Prevent + Detect

---

Behavior detections for memory dumping are fairly straightforward. Use create an analytic that detects SysMon event ID 10 (ProcessAccess) for the lsass.exe process. This is a robust method to detect when rogue processes are attempting to access the lsass.exe process because there shouldn't be processes attaching to lsass.exe in a production environment. 

### How it is chained

---

Once an adversary has dumped memory from lsass.exe, the next step will be exfiltrating the dump file and attempting to get hashes or plain-text credentials from the memory dump that can be used for pass the hash and other persistence (T1041|T1003.001|T1136) or lateral movement actions (T1041|T1003.001|T1550.002). 
