
# PowerSploit Invoke-Mimikatz

---

#### Metadata

- *Prelude ID*: ccdb8caf-c69e-424b-b930-551969450c57
- *MITRE Technique ID*: [T1003](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1003)

---

### A hacker's perspective

---

This is a classic Windows attack. So much so, that most hackers now steer away from it entirely because you run an incredibly high chance of getting caught if you even think about executing it. The word "Mimikatz" showing up in a command - or even a text file - is likely to get flagged by antivirus. If you download the program itself, every antivirus worth its salt will quarantine it immediately. But you should know this command because it still gets pulled out by script-kiddies and the like. Mimikatz exploits Windows single sign-on functionality to harvest credentials. Until Windows 10, Windows by default used a feature called WDigest that loads encrypted passwords into memory, but also loads the secret key to decrypt them. WDigest has been a useful feature for authenticating large numbers of users on an enterprise or government network, but also lets Mimikatz exploit this feature by dumping memory and extracting the passwords. So in other words, if you come across a Windows 7 computer with outdated antivirus, this procedure is worth a try, otherwise, just note this as a lesson. In this procedure, I am aiming to dump credentials in 2-steps: download the Mimikatz program from a GitHub source repository then immediately invoke it with the -DumpCreds parameter. 

### Expected output

---

A list of credential blocks should print to console. Each should contain the domain, username, password and supplemental information for each found credential. 

### Basic variations

---

Because Mimikatz is so often caught, there are two variations that are more common to see. The first is simply encoding the command with base64 (or another encoding algorithm) and executing the encoded string with PowerShell, such as "powershell -Encoded BASE_64_VERSION_OF_THIS_COMMAND". This can help bypass any keyword-based detection methods, although most modern systems catch this nowadays. The more common variation is for an attacker to dump the contents of LSASS (Local Security Authority Subsystem Service) to a file, exfiltrate the file, then run Mimikatz on their local computer. LSASS contains the same type of data, in raw form, that the Mimikatz program hunts for, so this variation just splits up the dumping of content from the hunting of credentials. 

### Prevent + Detect

---

Install a modern, Windows-focused antivirus program. 

### How it is chained

---

Most of the time, expect this to be chained with OS Credential Dumping, specifically around LSASS Memory (T1003.001). Although you are unlikely to see the Mimikatz program run on the compromised computer, as the attacker would have extracted the LSASS dump to their own computer where they'll run a variant of this procedure. Any time this procedure (T1003) is seen in the wild on its own, you should consider it malicious however, so consider this a chain of one. 
