
# Find private keys

#### Metadata

- *Prelude ID*: de632c2d-a729-4b77-b781-6a6b09c148ba
- *MITRE Technique ID*: [T1145](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1145)

### A hacker's perspective

Think about the key to your home. It is used to open your front door and allow safe passage. A private key is thedigital version of your house key. Private keys are individual files which allow access to either remote computers or to unlockencrypted files or emails. Private keys are sometimes referred to as secret keys, and are often called id_rsa orcontain extensions like .pem. Since a key is like a password, I'm very interested in collecting as many of theseas possible, so I can attempt to quickly laterally move to systems that use key authentication (some use passwords, others both).In enterprise environments, I'll often find users who share keys, as it is convenient to do so. A key can require apassword to use, but again this is rare, because it is not convenient.

### Expected output

A list of the absolute file paths containing private keys on the system.

### Basic variations

An attacker may know which extensions they're interested in looking for, such as .pem which is the default private keyextension for AWS/cloud resources, or id_rsa, which is the default key name on Linux/MacOS computers. Aside from specifictypes of keys searched for, other variations of this procedure may include which type of program is used to do the searching.In this procedure, such as find, grep or Get-ChildItem. Being familiar with common file search utilities which are pre-installedon common operating systems will get you familiar with what options a hacker may lean on.

### Prevent + Detect

Ensure all your keys require a password to use. Preventing an attacker who has already compromised your computerfrom finding and stealing your keys is hard. But you can add extra layers of protection by ensuring all your privatekeys require a password when they're used (like MFA).

### How it is chained

An adversary may first look for Data from the Local System (T1005) to see if and where private keys may be used. Anexample of this would be looking at the SSH config file (~/.ssh/config) on a Linux/MacOS computer, which can displayshortcut SSH commands referencing private keys. Similar to this, Bash History (T1552.003) can contain private keyreferences, which may be checked before an adversary runs this procedure.After a private key is found, you will usually either see Exfiltration Over C2 Channel (T1041) as the attacker stealsthe key or you'll see any number of Remote Services lateral movement attacks which require a key, such as SSH (T1021.004)or (T1021.006).
