
# Start agent remotely (PSExec)

---

#### Metadata

- *Prelude ID*: 0c752dce-9302-4465-805f-522650aece3f
- *MITRE Technique ID*: [T1569.002](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1569/002)

---

### A hacker's perspective

---

PsTools is a Swiss army knife for red teamers and blue teamers alike, and the PsExec tool is one of the most powerfulof that software suite. Not only can I execute remote binaries and scripts using PsExec, the tool allows me to specifycredentials to change the security context of the process I'm creating (which can be done on the local system as wellto spawn elevated command shells or PowerShells). In this instance, it is being used to remotely spawn a new agent onthe remote system using credentials I've gathered during previous phases of my operation. This expands my foothold inand potentially expands my access to progress deeper into the target network.

### Expected output

---

This will spawn a new agent in a non-interactive remote process called "rtrsd" running in the System account. The EULAand Copyright banners will be supressed.

### Basic variations

---

This particular command expects that the adversary has pre-staged an "agent.go" file on the remote system in the"C:\Windows\Temp" directory. A simple tweak to the command using the `-c` flag would allow the attacker to copy a fileover versus have it pre-staged. For example: `start PsExec64.exe \\#{ip.T1135} -c agent.go`.

### Prevent + Detect

---

Beyond simple hash checking for the PsExec binary, the overall methodology PsExec uses to execute remote code throughthe service control manager API is fairly well known. PsExec will establish an SMB connection with the target systemand send a copy of PSEXECSVC.EXE to the remote ADMIN$ share, where it starts the remote service to enable named pipecommunications between the local and remote process (\\.\pipe\PSEXECSVC*). Monitor for Windows security event ID 7045with the default service name (PSEXECSVC). Additionally look for Windows security event ID 5145 with Relative TargetName matching the PSExecSvc nomenclature ([Binary Name]-[Machine Name]-[Random Digits]-[stdin|stdout|stderr]).

### How it is chained

---

Adversaries typically use PSExec further in their kill chain because it often requires a sizeable binary be downloadedonto the target and additionally requires administrative credentials. This might be followed by additional lateralmovement using PsExec, exfiltration attempts using previously collected data (T1569.002|T1041), or impact techniques suchas data encryption seen in modern ransomware followed by destruction of system back-ups (T1486|T1490).
