
# Bypass AMSI, load, and run XOR'd SharpHound payload

---

#### Metadata

- *Prelude ID*: 7a3d1966-fe8d-4893-8cee-a94e1f96b957
- *MITRE Technique ID*: [T1106](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1106)

---

### A hacker's perspective

---

BloodHound is bar none, one of the most effective tools for understanding the Active Directory structure of a targetenvironment. To use BloudHound, I first need to run the SharpHound collector inside the target environment...but it's not as simple as downloading it and running it! The payload is (obviously) considered malicious, so we needa way to run it without being detected. In this case, we're grabbing a previously XOR'd version of the binary,loading it into memory after disabling the Anti-Malware Scanning Interface (AMSI), then executing it a powershell process.

### Expected output

---

When finished, SharpHound will create several JSON files and place them into a zip file.

### Basic variations

---

SharpHound takes several arguments from the command line. Those arguments are detailed in attached link with the SharpHounddocumentation.

### Prevent + Detect

---

On the Domain Controller side, look for rapid Windows Event ID 5145 (A network share object was checked to see whetherclient can be granted desired access) and RelativeTargetName={srvcsvc or lsarpc or samr}, with at least 3 occurenceswith different RelativeTargetName and Same (Source IP, Port) and SourceUserName not like "*DC*$" within 1 minute. Clientside, you can use Sysmon to look for rapid Event ID 18 (PipeConnect) and Event ID 3 (NetworkConnect) associated withthe same process ID.

### How it is chained

---

SharpHound use is essentially the precursor to all future operations an Adversary is going to run in a target environment.This includes privilege escalation, lateral movement, persistence and more. BloodHound can automatically detect optimalattack paths through an Active Directory environment which make it easy to identify ideal targets users and systemsin persuit of domain administrator (T1106|T1563.002).
