
# Test remote PsExec access

---

#### Metadata

- *Prelude ID*: e4027dff-280b-4964-82be-b35a40c4a493
- *MITRE Technique ID*: [T1569.002](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1569/002)

---

### A hacker's perspective

---

I need to know if my current security context will allow me to remotely execute commands on a target system. One method for testing that is using PsExec to run a generic command. A successful test execution tells me that my current permissions are sufficient to spawn processes on the target system, meaning that I have the ability to execute my planned follow-on actions. 

### Expected output

---

Copyright information and exit code 0 will be displayed in the console if the test is successful. 

### Basic variations

---

Any other shell commands can easily be swapped in place of the `whoami` part of the command as part of this test. For example, I could save the contents of the current directory to a file by executing the command `PsExec64.exe \\#{ip.T1135} dir > output.txt`. 

### Prevent + Detect

---

Beyond simple hash checking for the PsExec binary, the overall methodology PsExec uses to execute remote code through the service control manager API is fairly well known. PsExec will establish an SMB connection with the target system and send a copy of PSEXECSVC.EXE to the remote ADMIN$ share, where it starts the remote service to enable named pipe communications between the local and remote process (\\.\pipe\PSEXECSVC*). Monitor for Windows security event ID 7045 with the default service name (PSEXECSVC). Additionally look for Windows security event ID 5145 with Relative Target Name matching the PSExecSvc nomenclature ([Binary Name]-[Machine Name]-[Random Digits]-[stdin|stdout|stderr]). From a behavioral standpoint, monitor for the creation of new services and prevent that if possible. 

### How it is chained

---

After testing PsExec functionality and validating that it works, the next logical step will be leveraging service execution to remotely stage tools on systems via PsExec's default SMB Admin Share (T1569.002|T1570|T1021.002) methodology. Those payloads could be my own agents for maintaining persistence, ransomware which would be used to encrypt files on the system (T1486), or several other tactics depending upon my overall objectives. 
