
# Start agent remotely (WMI)

---

#### Metadata

- *Prelude ID*: eb4c2ff6-3534-404c-bf1c-d864a508c162
- *MITRE Technique ID*: [T1047](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1047/)

---

### A hacker's perspective

---

Relying on heavy binaries like PsExec for remote code execution in a windows environment is not ideal; I have to figureout how to get a large binary on my current foothold and hope it's not blocked by Anti-Virus. Windows Management Instrumentation(WMI) offers an alternative that leverages built-in Windows functionality to execute commands without have to rely onthird-party tooling. Windows Management Instrumentation Command (WMIC) is a powerful "live-off-the-land" binary for interactingwith WMI. Not only can I use WMIC to perform local and remote discovery, I can use it start agents on remote systemsto get a larger foothold in the network.

### Expected output

---

Short response indicated a (Win32_Process)->Create() was successful on the remote system with a return value of 0.

### Basic variations

---

Adversaries can use WMIC (or WMI in general) for a plethora of reasons, from local system discovery to remote processexecution. There are actually powershell script implants (WMImplant - https://github.com/FortyNorthSecurity/WMImplant)that enable attackers to perform local and remote attacks entirely through WMI.

### Prevent + Detect

---

Consider disabling DCOM access so that WMIC cannot be used to execute code through DCOM remotely. The Windows firewallwill block DCOM access by default as well, so review domain Group Policy Objects (GPOs) to ensure that windows firewallis enabled and configured to block inbound DCOM. This particular command is spawning an agent binary, so applicationwhitelisting would prevent the agent from spawning. From a behavioral detection standpoint, command line and powershelltelemetry for various Windows and SysMon WMI event codes coupled with analytics for chains of WMI events can help detecttechniques (For example: log in to system over DCOM followed by a WMI consumer event setup might indicate a lateralmovement or persistence chain).

### How it is chained

---

Now the the adversary has established a new agent on the remote system, they will probably attempt to gain persistenceon that remote system. They could use WMI event subscriptions since they already know the credentials theyposess work and WMI is functional. Once they have persistence on the system, it will likely be followed by local accountdiscovery and file eand directory discovery (T1546.003|T1087.001|T1083). It will largely depend on the adversaries objectives(financial gain, intelligence gathering, destruction) what occurs next on the system. 
