
# Install PSTools

---

#### Metadata

- *Prelude ID*: eb814e03-811a-467a-bc6d-dcd453750fa2
- *MITRE Technique ID*: [T1072](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1072)

---

### A hacker's perspective

---

PSTools is a swiss-army knife on a Windows computer, for handling processes. It has many good uses for a systems administrator, many of which can be used for bad in the hands of a hacker. By default, PSTools is not installed on Windows, which means the first thing I need to do is download it. The tool itself is often whitelisted, meaning that I won't get blocked by downloading it. Because of this, in this procedure I simply download it in plain sight from the reputable sysinternals website. Then I install the tool. 

### Expected output

---

This procedure will not output any usable content to parse. 

### Basic variations

---

The largest variation here will be how the binary itself is downloaded to disk. It could be directly from the sysinternals site or it could be through a proxy or alternative "side-loading" behavior to get the PSTools.zip on the computer. 

### Prevent + Detect

---

Blacklist the sysinternals website entirely to block the download of PSTools.zip. In addition, ensure any installation of new software is monitored. The only computer users who should be authorized to install or use PSTools should be on your technical teams, specifically in IT or security. Finally, be on the lookout for installations which are done into your TEMP directory, as this is an abnormal location to install software, almost always related to malicious activity. 

### How it is chained

---

Inside of PSTools reside many utilities a competent hacker will salivate over: PsExec being near the top. PsExec is a light-weight telnet-replacement that lets you execute processes on other systems, complete with full interactivity for console applications, without having to manually install client software. This tool can be leveraged for lateral movement. Because of that, look for any Service Execution (T1569.002) commands that follow the PSTools installation. Also look for any commands which invoke the "psexec" utility by name. Lateral movement over Remote Services (T1021) could also be directly chained from this procedure. 
