
# bash_profile tampering

---

#### Metadata

- *Prelude ID*: 2a1817fe-9e93-41f2-81fa-c34cc3b72472
- *MITRE Technique ID*: [T1546](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1546)

---

### A hacker's perspective

---

Access to a network is fleeting, so establishing persistence as quickly as possible is very important. For *nix systems,it might make sense to drop an implant where on disk, then append a simple bash command to either .bashrc or .bash_profilethat executes whenever a new interactive non-login or login shell is opened . There are obvious downsides to this, suchas the fact that I will have as many agents calling back as logins or new shell sessions (OS dependent), but it mightbe a good option in a pinch.

### Expected output

---

No standard out will be generated. I would expect new callbacks from agents any time a login shell session with thatprofile is opened.

### Basic variations

---

Some adversaries are known to tweak the /etc/rc.local file to create a reboot persistence that doesn't depend on aspecific users' .bash_profile or .bashrc file. You could also have the bash entry reach out to the internet to executea curl command to download a new agent versus relying on the agent file existing on disk after reboot.

### Prevent + Detect

---

To prevent server persistence, consider using a configuration management tool like Puppet to maintain a server's configurationso that any local changes made to .bashrc or /etc/rc.local would get reset back to the known good configuration. Periodicaudits and/or monitoring of .bashrc and .bash_profile files might help identify atypical bash commands (keyword matcheson nohup for example).

### How it is chained

---

Typically persistence will be an adversaries next step after gaining initial access to a system; now that they are in,they do not want to lose their ability to maneuver in the target network. Persistence techniques such as this might befollowed by passive network sniffing (T1040) for the adversary to understand what "normal" traffic looks like, followedby more active remote reconnaisance for systems (T1018).
