
# Create root user in /etc/passwd via CVE-2021-3156

---

#### Metadata

- *Prelude ID*: eb0c0ef9-4f9e-4a15-a3e9-2ec540892d87
- *MITRE Technique ID*: [T1136.001](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1136/001)

---

### A hacker's perspective

---

Modifying the /etc/passwd file is an effective way to establish persistence that doesn't require bringing payloads or making substantial changes to the target system. This lets me continue to operate on the target system as an unprivileged user while assuming superuser privileges to perform specific actions as needed. It also allows me to SSH into the system later using that persistent user. 

### Expected output

---

No standard output will be created, but the shell exit code will be 0 if the exploit succeeds. 

### Basic variations

---

The contents of the echo command can be modified to run basically any shell command as superuser (root). There is another example in the professional TTPs where the exploit is used to launch a new privileged agent (Spawn elevated pneuma via CVE-2021-3156). 

### Prevent + Detect

---

This is an instance where it is important to upgrade systems to prevent exploitation in the first place. Make sure that systems are upgraded to at least sudo version 1.9.5p2 as the exploit works on versions up to 1.9.5p1. Use monitoring software to track file write operations to the /etc/passwd file. For example, you can use inotify-tools to track any changes to the /etc/passwd file. 

### How it is chained

---

This is actually two TTPs in one: the exploitation and the persistence. The chain used for this exploit involves checking the version of the sudo binary to see if it's exploitable, generating a new password hash for the user, exploiting the vulnerable sudo binary, then writing a persistence user to the passwd file (T1518|T1059.004|T1068|T1136.001). 
