
# Compress staged directory

#### Metadata

- *Prelude ID*: 300157e5-f4ad-4569-b533-9d1fa0e74d74
- *MITRE Technique ID*: [T1560.001](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1560/001/)

### A hacker's perspective

Compressing a directory containing files does two things: 1) it condenses the directory from a collection of filesto a single one and 2) it makes the total size (in bytes) of the files smaller. This is usually done in two technicalsteps, which are grouped together for ease-of-use. I'll run this procedure when I am in the midst of a ransomwareattack or if I'm looking to steal the files from the compromised computer. In both cases, the goal is the same: the procedurewhich follows this one is noisy (i.e., runs a high chance of getting caught) and this step lowers that noise level.For example, if I have copied all the files I want to steal (exfiltrate) into a staging directory, if I compress it first,the exfiltration step will be less suspicious because I'm stealing a single, smaller file. In the same vein, instead ofencrypting all the files 1-by-1 as part of a ransomware attack, I can move files to one spot and encrypt a single file.

### Expected output

The name of the newly compressed directory should be printed to standard out.

### Basic variations

There are several popular TAR (often called a tarball) and compression libraries available. A hacker is likely to attemptLiving Off The Land (LOTL), meaning they will try to use whatever is already installed on the computer, to avoid drawingextra attention to themselves. Therefore, common built-in utilities for this procedure will include TAR, GZ, ZIP andCompress-Archive. 7-Zip is a popular open-source library which is uncommon to find installed but one of the morecommon packages a hacker may install if none exist.

### Prevent + Detect

Because there are a finite number of known libraries for compressing a directory, you can monitor throughkeyword analytics (i.e., log and alert when any known library is used). This will produce a fairly high level of falsepositives however, as compressing is a semi-normal computer behavior. You could go a little deeper and look for the installationof 7-Zip or look for this procedure used in conjuncture with one of the chained ones.

### How it is chained

Look for a noisy follow up procedure to be linked after this one. Usually that will be a Data Impacted for Encryption(T1486) procedure or another exfiltration command, such as Exfiltration Over Command and Control Channel (T1041),Exfiltration Over Alternative Protocol (T1048) or Transfer Data to Cloud Account (T1537).
