
# Test SSH connection

---

#### Metadata

- *Prelude ID*: 78d94199-7e0e-442b-81a6-32f8e419a7ac
- *MITRE Technique ID*: [T1041](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1041/)

---

### A hacker's perspective

---

SSH is one of my go-to tools in terms of its sheer flexibility for all stages of my operation. I can forward ports for redirectors, set up SOCKS5 proxies, and in this case, tunnel out of a network to exfiltrate data. Inbound connections are almost always blocked, but it is typically not blocked outbound on networks. Using Putty, I can check if that is in fact the case. Putty is an all-in-one standalone binary for Windows that lets me create SSH connections from Windows systems. While newer versions of Windows come with a built-in SSH client/server, I do not expect to find many systems with it installed, let alone configured. Putty is a good option as it is relatively well known, and heavily used by System Administrators working on Windows systems (meaning it won't be blocked). 

### Expected output

---

A new Putty terminal will open, prompting for a password. If it is a host that has not be connected to before, there will also be a prompt to verify the remote system before connecting. 

### Basic variations

---

Newer versions of Windows come with an option to enable native SSH support (client and server) by enabling optional features in Windows Settings. From there it is possible to open PowerShell and execute `ssh #{account.user.T1087}@#{ip.T1135}`. Windows also has a feature called Windows Subsystem for Linux (WSL) which can be enabled by following the instructions here: "https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/wsl/install-win10".  Once that is enabled, you can install OpenSSH and execute `ssh #{account.user.T1087}@#{ip.T1135}` to reach a desired host. 

### Prevent + Detect

---

Limit outbound SSH connections to only those systems that need it and implement TLS inspection so that TLS/SSL traffic can be decrypted and analyzed before it egresses the network. Many modern filewalls support a form of TLS inspection and can analyze and block the decrypted traffic. Use that in combination with other host-based Data Loss Prevention (DLP) solutions. From a behavioral standpoint, now that the adversary is already at the exfiltration stage of their operation, look for abdnormal outbound data flows from hosts. For example, create a data upload analytic that has a threshold for "normal" upload rates given a user and system type, and tie that to the process that is uploading the data. Tailor the analytic to whitelist valid sites your business uses. 

### How it is chained

---

Typically this is the last step before an adversary leaves a network, unless it is a slow exfiltration taking place over long periods of time in order to avoid detection. This phase will be proceeded by staging of files on one or many systems (T1074) and possibly some kind of compression prior to upload (T1560). Depending on the threat and the intent, there might be defacement operations (T1491.001), data destruction (T1485) or several other impact actions. 
