
# Exfiltration via FTP

---

#### Metadata

- *Prelude ID*: d7d541b3-74f3-467a-b118-c3384ff88c64
- *MITRE Technique ID*: [T1048.003](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1048/003)

---

### A hacker's perspective

---

When I'm exfiltrating data, my worst case scenario is having my command and control (C2) channel discovered and losing my foothold in the target network. A better way is to use an alternative protocol that is completely out of band from the primary C2 channel. Standing up an FTP server is extremely simple and a very quick way to rapidly exfiltrate data from a network. 

### Expected output

---

Files from the target directory are staged in the specified remote FTP server. 

### Basic variations

---

There are numerous tweaks that can be made to this command. System.Net.WebClient is commonly used and caught by Windows Defender and the Antimalware Scripting Interface (AMSI), so an attacker could directly call the XML HTTP Component Object Model (COM) object using "$webclient = New-Object -ComObject Msxml2.XMLHTTP". Attackers could also use encrypt the connection by using FTPS or even choose to a completely different protocol like SFTP. 

### Prevent + Detect

---

Block the FTP/S protocol from egressing the network if it is feasible. If FTP is critical to a business function, limit egress connections using that protocol to only the systems that absolutely need the functionality. A network intrusion detection/prevention system (NIDS/NIPS) can support packet inspection and filtering of protocols. Look for abnormal protocols (relative to the network basline) being used for internal to external connections. 

### How it is chained

---

Typically if an adversary is at the exfiltration stage, they've reached one or more of their objectives and have data worth the risk of exfiltrating. Exfiltration from a network is typically followed by more exfiltration through other mediums like a code repository (T1567.001) or cloud storage (T1567.002) depending on the target network's typical pattern of life. An adversary will also thoroughly cover their tracks by clearing event logs (T1070.001|T1070.002), removing any payloads (T1070.004), and eliminating as many indicators of compromise as possible. Depending on the adversary's intent and objectives, they might also destroy data (T1485) or deface internal services (T1491.001). 
