
# Open dnscat2 tunnel

#### Metadata

- *Prelude ID*: e74554b8-0bc9-3d50-95a4-e45421925b49
- *MITRE Technique ID*: [T1048.003](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1048/003)

### A hacker's perspective

Among all the endless technologies and protocols in existence, there is one that underpins almost every network: DomainName System (DNS). DNS transforms human readible addresses into IP addresses and is therefore almost guaranteed to beused on a target network, and further, extremely likely to be allowed to egress the target network (unless it's air-gapped).Knowing this, I can leverage DNS as both a Command and Control (C2) and exfiltration channel out of the target network.DNSCat2 is a simple tool that allows me to accomplish both of those tasks - by installing the PowerShell module andrunning a command, I can attach a `cmd.exe` instance to the outbound DNS connection and begin to send data to my C2or exfiltration server. One thing to note is that DNS C2 is extremely "noisy" insofar as beacons and data transfersmust be broken up into strings no longer than 253 characters (or less to be inconspicuous). Sending a 1 Megabyte filewould require 5 DNS requests even with a tiny target domain name.

### Expected output

A new DNS transfer session will be established with the remote server that is located at the resolving domain.

### Basic variations

Instead of pointing at a domain like `google.com`, dnscat can use an IP address and target port using the `-DNSServer`and `-DNSPort` flags. Additionally, the DNS C2 channel can be encrypted if desired. Several publicly available C2 platformssupport DNS C2 and exfiltration as well, such as Sliver C2 and Cobalt Strike.

### Prevent + Detect

Depending how DNS exfiltration is accomplished, it can range from extremely easy or very difficult to detect. If feasible,block DNS requests for low reputation domains to force attackers to use more valuable domain names for exfiltration.Look for numerous requests to the same domain in rapid succession and also look for requests that are long or repeatedover time; this could indicate an agent sending a beacon request out to a C2 server. From a behavioral standpoint,use telemetry to identify processes making DNS requests that are atypical for your network.

### How it is chained

Exfiltration is often at the end of the kill chain, but DNS is not the fastest exfiltration methodology, so the attackerwill probably have follow-on actions including additional collection (T1005|T1213.001|T1213.002|T1039) and local staging(T1074.001) for eventual exfiltration over this DNS channel (T1048.003) or some other channel.
