
# File.io exfil

---

#### Metadata

- *Prelude ID*: ea713bc4-63f0-491c-9a6f-0b01d560b87e
- *MITRE Technique ID*: [T1041](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1041/)

---

### A hacker's perspective

---

This is often the end-goal: the act of stealing data from a compromised computer. As I go through the normal phasesof an offensive operation (post-compromise), I run passive and active recon, then aim to gain persistence and pivotlaterally to extend my footprint. Along the way, I'm collecting artifacts and storing them on local disk for later.Once I'm ready to exit the environment, I'll pull out the big guns: exfiltrating my cache of files. In this procedure,I'm leveraging a known 1-time file share called File.io. This website is one of many which allow for quick upload/downloadof files. It offers a simple programmatic API to complete the upload, which I can engage over a short cURL command orsimilar. Once the command is complete, it will spit out a URL which I can go to in a browser to download the file(s)I uploaded. This is a 1-time use download though. So if I use it, the files are wiped off the file share and the defense -even if they find the URL in the logs - will get a 404 (not found) message if they go to it.

### Expected output

---

A JSON string which contains a URL with the location I can retrieve the stolen file(s).

### Basic variations

---

There are many file shares online which offer similar easy-to-use, free, non-attributable services forexactly this purpose. They usually offer some type of HTTP(S) API which allows the upload and download of files.

### Prevent + Detect

---

Use a security solution which blacklists file shares that are not approved for your company. Most of thetime, you can do this blindly by removing access to any file shares which are account-less, such as File.io orPaste Bin. Legitimate file share services, such as Drop Box, require a user to have an account (which is traceable)to use the service. These can be abused absolutely - but an attacker is more likely to try a non-attributableservice first as they can remain hidden.

### How it is chained

---

This is often a final procedure in the chain for a hacker. So if this has already completed, you may be out of luck.However, you can determine if this was a malicious action by looking at what conspired just before it. In this case,a hacker is likely to have located files through a Data from Local System procedure, then staged (copied) thefiles around the computer in preparation of exfiltrating them and then finally Archive Collected Data tocompress their new cache of files (T1005|T1074|T1560.001).
