
# Modify a command

---

#### Metadata

- *Prelude ID*: 25c8808f-89ad-4bb5-b483-1456dbe83541
- *MITRE Technique ID*: [T1543](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1543)

---

### A hacker's perspective

---

Docker containers are incredibly common in modern computing, but they are also often misconfigured and vulnerable to many different exploitation chains. In this instance, I am hunting for a host and user that has write persmissions to the docker unix socket (/var/run/docker.sock) that is used to control the docker daemon. This lets me boot my own docker container with the socket shared with the container, then I can install docker into the container - once I've done this, I have the ability to interact with all dockers running on the system and can execute arbitrary commands (via docker exec) in any container. 

### Expected output

---

New pneuma beacon arrives in Operator originating from the docker container. 

### Basic variations

---

There are several other commands we could run depending what our objective is. For example modifying the command to have the "-it" flags and running "apt-get -qq update; apt-get install -qq docker.io 2>&1 > /dev/null; bash" as the command would drop me into an interactive bash session where I could directly manipulate the dockers. 

### Prevent + Detect

---

Docker provides best practices for securing the docker socket file, which include not exposing it to the network and making sure that few (or no) user accounts have write persmissions to the socket. Command line monitoring for dockers created with the "-v /var/run/docker.sock:/var/run/docker.sock" would also be a semi-reliable way to check for potentially malicious behavior. 

### How it is chained

---

After creating the docker container, the adversary will begin enumerating the containers on the system to look for potential vectors for escaping the containers into root privileges on the underlying host (T1082|T1059.004|T1548.004). 
