
# UAC bypass registry

#### Metadata

- *Prelude ID*: 665432a4-42e7-4ee1-af19-a9a8c9455d0c
- *MITRE Technique ID*: [T1088](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1088/)

### A hacker's perspective

UAC prompts for a password when I attempt an action requiring privileges that are beyond those of the current,compromised user account. This is a safety mechanism. However, there are many ways I can bypass UAC on a Windows box.In this procedure, I'm utilizing the registry to set the EnableLUA value to 0. Thisdisables UAC entirely. The key is called EnableLUA, not UAC, because User Access Control was previously called Limited User Account (LUA).The process of disabling UAC is important because many things I'll want to do on the computer will require Administratorprivileges. Unless I have both the user's password and a graphical interface (to click confirm on the pop up box) I'llhit rock walls.

### Expected output

None. This command will not output any usable standard out.

### Basic variations

As stated above, there are many variations to bypassing UAC. One good resource are the dozens of bypass UAC techniquesdescribed in the popular UACME tool: https://github.com/hfiref0x/UACME. Aside from this, the registry contains several bypass opportunites,beyond the one seen in this procedure. The FodHelper and Eventvwr keys can be manipulated to allow for bypass opportunities. Additionally, there are manyprogrammatic scripts and tools in the wild which can be used to "pop" privileges, taking advantage of many security holesaround UAC.

### Prevent + Detect

Microsoft does not consider bypassing UAC to be a security issue, therefore does not attempt to patch the variationsof bypass techniques in the wild. Your best bet for detection is to select "Always notify" in the UAC settings and makethis a requirement for all machines in your network. Always notify means you will be notified when you make changesto your system, such as installing software programs or when you are making direct changes to Windows settings.When the UAC prompt is displayed, other tasks are frozen until you respond. This is the highest of 4 settings youcould select from in the UAC settings. Beyond this, look to detect this procedure chained to a common follow upprocedure per the section below.

### How it is chained

Before this procedure, you will likely see the hacker checking UAC Status, among other System Information Discoverycommands. And following this procedure, a hacker is likely to attempt an Administrator level command, taking advantage of theirnew privileges. Because one of the design goals of UAC is to prevent installations from being run without the user's knowledge,it's common to follow up with an installation of a new service and other System Services attacks (T1082|T1543.003|T1569), such asthe starting of the new service.
