
# PowerSploit Named-Pipe Impersonation

---

#### Metadata

- *Prelude ID*: a89ea459-97ec-28fd-a552-9d305f023bbe
- *MITRE Technique ID*: [T1134.001](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1134/001/)

---

### A hacker's perspective

---

This attack takes advantage of a Windows system design pattern where named pipe servers are able to impersonate thesecurity tokens of connected clients. Typically pipe servers have higher privileges than pipe clients, but if the clientis a SYSTEM service that connects to a lower-permission server, the lower permission server can impersonate SYSTEM.This LocalSystem Account (which include NT AUTHORITY\SYSTEM and BUILTIN\Administrator SIDs) is the highest privilegeaccount on a windows system and gives me total control over the local system. I can assign privileges to accounts atwill, create and load services at will, dump credentials from memory, and more.

### Expected output

---

Standard output saying "Running as: WORKGROUP\SYSTEM" or "Running as: NT AUTHORITY\SYSTEM".

### Basic variations

---

Metasploit's meterpreter has a built-in command that runs three different variants of `Get-System`. The first two usenamed pipe impersonation either in-memory or by writing to disk. The third will attempt to reflectively injecta DLL into a service that is both running as SYSTEM and the current user has write permissions for, then apply the tokenfrom the service to the meterpreter thread.

### Prevent + Detect

---

Most modern Anti-Virus and/or Endpoint Detection and Response (EDR) solutions will trigger an alert when the this powershellscript is run. Write a behavioral detection to track when new services are created, attach to a named pipe, and aredeleted shortly thereafter. Monitoring calls to Windows APIs related to token impersonation and creation.

### How it is chained

---

After a an attacker escalates to SYSTEM, a likely next step will be dumping credentials from LSASS memory (T1003.001)or LSA secrets (T1003.004). Those credentials will be utilized to start laterally transfering tools (T1570) and spawnprocesses on remote systems using methods like pass the hash (T1550.002). There could also be some SYSTEM-level persistenceactions like kernel modules and extensions (T1547.006) for more sophisticated threat actors.
