
# Bypass AMSI and reflectively inject PE into process

---

#### Metadata

- *Prelude ID*: 1043b3dd-2ac3-4646-9648-f2f7471d210e
- *MITRE Technique ID*: [T1055.002](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1055/002)

---

### A hacker's perspective

---

Many Anti-Virus (AV) products scan binaries when they are saved on a target system. We can get around this by avoidingsaving payloads to the target and instead using in-memory loading techniques to store and execute the payload. Thisparticular strategy where the Windows Anti-Malware Scanning Interface (AMSI) is patched for the current powershell process,then an existing Reflective PE/DLL Injection script from PowerSploit. Because AMSI is disabled, we are able to loada known malicious script an inject any properly formatted PE or DLL.

### Expected output

---

Depending upon the payload, there will be verbose output from the Reflective Injection script followed by the output/resultsfrom the injected payload.

### Basic variations

---

Depending upon the type of payload, this harness works for multiple different simple versions of payloads. There areseveral variations of in-memory payload loading that exist each depending on the objective and type of payload.

### Prevent + Detect

---

Remote injection of a DLL/PE into a process always starts with a process attach step. A reliable detection is configuringSysMon to check for event ID 10 (ProcessAccess) which would indicate a process has tried to open and access another process.SysMon also has an event ID 25 (ProcessTampering) which is generated when process hiding techniques such as "hollow" or"herpaderp" are detected.

### How it is chained

---

Process Injection is commonly used for defense evasion and privilege escalation techniques. By avoid touching anythingexcept memory, an attacker can inject a payload that steals the current processes security token and possibly leveragethat to escalate to higher permissions (T1055.002|T1134.001).
