
# Patch AMSI Scan Buffer function

---

#### Metadata

- *Prelude ID*: 363a8e82-ddb6-44db-8a66-4c03b183f609
- *MITRE Technique ID*: [T1562.001](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1562/001)

---

### A hacker's perspective

---

According to Microsoft, "The Windows Antimalware Scan Interface (AMSI) is a versatile interface standard that allows your applications and services to integrate with any antimalware product that's present on a machine. AMSI provides enhanced malware protection for your end-users and their data, applications, and workloads." Basically, AMSI blocks potentially malicious scripts from executing by processing them before allowing them to run. Disabling AMSI allows me to run scripts that would normally otherwise be blocked (like powersploit's Invoke-MimiKatz), which vastly expands the my potential attack options. 

### Expected output

---

Standard Out response of "Successfully patched AMSI Scan Buffer." from the PneumaEX agent. 

### Basic variations

---

There are numerous ways to bypass AMSI and many people online have aggregated those methods into a single repository for simple reference. S3cur3Th1sSh1t!'s Amsi-Bypass-Powershell repository has 15 different methods that can be used during an operation along with code samples for how to use them. 

### Prevent + Detect

---

F-Secure put together an excellent article on how to detect AMSI bypasses where the attacker is patching the OPCODEs by comparing the on-disk AMIS.dll code segment with the in-memory ASMI.dll code segment. That check can be run either when a new powershell process is spawned or, better, periodically against all open powershell processes on a given target. 

### How it is chained

---

Patching ASMI is almost always the precusor to follow-on powershell execution on a target. The adversary might also disable ETW if they're planning to use the powershell instance to load in .NET binaries for post-exploitation operations (T1562.001|T1059.001|T1106). 
