
# 1-min sleep

---

#### Metadata

- *Prelude ID*: 36eecb80-ede3-442b-8774-956e906aff02
- *MITRE Technique ID*: [T1564](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1564/)

---

### A hacker's perspective

---

It seems like an innocent enough command, to pause the operational state of the agent, forcing it to the background of the computer. However, it has a powerful consequence: avoiding, or attempting to avoid, defensive mechanisms by keeping quiet. Agents beacon into their command and control (C2) periodically for instructions. The more they beacon, the higher their odds are of getting caught. Typically, a hacker will deploy 2-3 agents on a given computer, each using a different protocol (HTTP/UDP/TCP) to communicate with the C2 and each with a different sleep interval between sending beacons. These are referred to as short-and-long poll agents. The shorter the polling (sleep interval) the more chances the hacker has to send instructions to the agent. The longer the poll, the fewer chances. When I run compromise a computer, I need to have a plan for my polling intervals. If the short poll agent gets caught (remember, it has a higher chance of this) then I still have my long poll agent running, which I can use to deploy a new short poll agent. 

### Expected output

---

No usable shell output is expected from this procedure. 

### Basic variations

---

Long and short poll agents should use a "jitter" time to avoid repetition. Defensive tools are good at picking up on routine activities. If an agent sleeps for exactly 60 seconds between beacons, this will stick out. If the beacon instead is sent out every 60 seconds with a +/- %10 jitter (54-66 seconds) it will run less of a risk. 

### Prevent + Detect

---

Look for processes on your computer(s) which are performing routine actions. Detecting any process which routinely sends packets to the open Internet is a sign you may be facing a cyber intruder. Secondarily, ensure your detection capability includes some sort of variance check, so an adversary using a jitter time does not trick your defenses. 

### How it is chained

---

Sleeping between beacons is embedded into the process most adversaries use throughout their attack, not a single event that you should look for chained procedures. But what is likely to follow a sleep procedure is a new beacon sent to a command and control center through an Application Layer Protocol (T1071) procedure. There are a number of sub-techniques you should get familiar with which could fall under this procedure, such as Web, File Transfer, Mail and DNS. 
