
# Bypass Execution Policy

---

#### Metadata

- *Prelude ID*: 3864fd22-5c63-41c9-bdbc-a66b5ffa3f5e
- *MITRE Technique ID*: [T1556](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1556)

---

### A hacker's perspective

---

By default, PowerShell restricts the running of scripts. This is a safety mechanism, not a security one. It ensures that a user does not shoot themselves in the foot by running a script without understanding it. As such, this mechanism can be easily bypassed. It is also a requirement to doing any interesting PowerShell attacks on a computer. Because of this, this procedure will be among the first ones I execute after compromising a computer. 

### Expected output

---

Like most defense-evasion techniques, no usable console output is expected from this command. 

### Basic variations

---

Typically, bypassing the PowerShell execution policy requires user input, confirming from the terminal window itself. In this Windows only procedure, you can see the command spoofs the user interaction component, entering a 'Y' (yes) to the confirmation required by the terminal window. Aside from this approach, which uses a registry key, there are more than a dozen other ways to bypass the execution policy. Popular ones are using the ExecutionPolicy flag when running commands, encoding commands or invoking them to avoid needing to touch the policy, swapping out the AuthorizationManager PowerShell uses, and changing the policy scope - among many others. 

### Prevent + Detect

---

Trigger an alert - using whatever defensive or logging systems you have - any time the PowerShell execution policy is changed or overriden. Nearly all valid cases for bypassing the policy would come from a systems administrator, which should be a rare case. 

### How it is chained

---

Expect this to be one of the first procedures a hacker executes. More PowerShell Scripting (T1059.001) procedures will most definitely follow this one, as well as additional Modify Authentication Process (T1556) attempts. 
