
# Avoid logs

#### Metadata

- *Prelude ID*: 43b3754c-def4-4699-a673-1d85648fda6a
- *MITRE Technique ID*: [T1562](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1562)

### A hacker's perspective

Covering my tracks comes first. Once I gain an initial foothold (i.e., compromise a computer) in a network, thisis one of the first procedures I reach for. It is a two step procedure. Step #1 is to clear out the previous history,which ensures the tracks are wiped related to how I gained the foothold. Step #2 is to disable history moving forward,ensuring that my future commands on the computer are not logged. Defensive operators rely on logs to determineif a hacker has infiltrated their systems. These logs are matched up to known attack patterns and alerts can be triggered.By stopping logging altogether, an adversary can create a blindspot for the defense.

### Expected output

No console output should come from running this command.

### Basic variations

Agents may run their commands under different executors, such as shell executors (like Bash and PowerShell) orlanguages such as Python or Node. Depending on which executor is used, the way it hides its tracks will be different.Programmatic languages may be trickier to see, as they can often mask their commands within the language itself.

### Prevent + Detect

Look for any statement which clears or stops logging on a computer. Secondarily, ensure you are using a centralizedlogging system, where all logs from a computer are sent. Ensure this system verifies that each computer is activelysending logs in (i.e., nothing turned off the logging agent). Otherwise, it should trigger an alert.

### How it is chained

This is one of the first procedures an adversary is likely to trigger. It is also likely to be done in successionwith other defense evasion procedures, such as Hide Artifacts (T1564) to make their agent file hidden or any numberof other sub-techniques under Impair Defenses (T1562), such as Indicator Blocking or Disable or Modify (Local|Cloud)Firewall.
