
# Disable SysMon (registry)

---

#### Metadata

- *Prelude ID*: 6efaff4c-9009-4b7d-890f-9cb57174169f
- *MITRE Technique ID*: [T1562.001](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1562/001)

---

### A hacker's perspective

---

Windows SysMon is a powerful host-based data collection tool that provides data enrichment for network defenders on Windows systems. In combination with Windows Event logging, SysMon can easily detect most of the techniques I would use on a target system. That being the case, it is very important for me to immediately determine if SysMon is running on a system and, if it is, what the configuration looks like. Once I know that, I will decide whether to operate around the configuration on the system or remove the configuration using a technique like this. 

### Expected output

---

A prompt in powershell indicated a new WMI event has been registered with the command 'Remove-ItemProperty -Path "HKLM:\SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Services\SysmonDrv\Parameters" -Name "Rules"'. 

### Basic variations

---

Attacking systems with SysMon configured can be approahed in several ways.  Typically the first step is understanding what the SysMon configuration looks like. Once that baseline is known, an attacker could perform actions that wouldn't be captured by the current SysMon configuration, delete the configuration (as demonstrated in this attack), or even disable the SysMon process entirely. 

### Prevent + Detect

---

Monitor for SysMon config state changed events (SysMon event ID 16) to detect when changes are made to the current configuration via the SysMon.exe tool. Enable powershell script-block logging to capture calls to Register-WMIEvent and Remove-ItemProperty for the HKLM SysmonDrv parameters key. Additionally, make sure that User Accounts permissions are properly configured to minimize administrative privileges an attacker would have to target SysMon. 

### How it is chained

---

Finding a SysMon configuration (and other local logging and monitoring mechanisms) is one of the first actions an attacker will need to take after gaining access to a target; it shapes the actions an attacker will take moving forwards. Read and writing SysMon configurations requires administrative privileges, so this command is typically used preceding other techniques that require higher level permissions and generate a lot of noise, such as OS credential dumping techniques like LSASS Memory (T1003.001) or the Security Account Manager (T1003.003). 
