
# Compile CSharp code on target

---

#### Metadata

- *Prelude ID*: 7c78dc23-980d-4b76-a92c-1b18d6b8efa1
- *MITRE Technique ID*: [T1027.004](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1027/004/)

---

### A hacker's perspective

---

Automated detection systems typically look for pre-compiled binaries that have existing signatures, matching executable header information, or other standard fields for the target platform. So, for example, Windows Defender is going to analyze Portable Executables (PE) and Dynamic-link Libraries (DLLs) for malicious code, but it won't analyze Mach-O and ELF binaries used for Mac OS and Linux systems. Likewise, it might not scan a piece of code and flag it as malicious. We can exploit this by staging code (and other strange formats) on the target system and recompiling/restructuring into a form that can run on the target system, thereby bypassing some defensive mechanisms. 

### Expected output

---

JSON blob with an AssemblyDLL key and a value with the full path to the compiled DLL. 

### Basic variations

---

A simple variation to this technique is swapping the "/target:" value from "library" to "exe" which would compile a standalone Assembly Executable instead of a library (DLL). Further variations involve using `msbuild.exe` to compile Win32 executables and libraries instead of Assembly (DotNet) versions. 

### Prevent + Detect

---

Prevention is very hard as this technique leverages "live off the land" capability resident on the target system. Detection options include monitoring the commonly used binaries (csc.exe, msbuild.exe, etc) and the associated command line arguments for systems where it would be atypical for your organization. 

### How it is chained

---

The compiled code can perform a variety of techniques, so it hard to know what specifically will be accomplished by the adversary when this technique is used. In the provided kill chain this technique is chained together to perform "ghostloading" where a normal executable is launched, effectively side loading and creating a new ApplicationDomain without directly calling the DLL/EXE itself (T1105|T1074.001|T1027.004|T1059). 
