
# Disable Windows Defender

---

#### Metadata

- *Prelude ID*: b007f6e8-4a87-4440-8888-29ceab047d9b
- *MITRE Technique ID*: [T1089](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1089)

---

### A hacker's perspective

---

Microsoft Defender is an anti-malware component of Microsoft Windows. It was first released as for Windows XP and has since gone through multiple upgrades, becoming one of the more powerful, free security tools available for Windows computers. Aside from a typical signature-based antivirus, Defender also looks at behavior-driven hacks to identify attacks, as well as web/DNS protection synced to the built-in (Edge) browser on most Windows boxes. Defender used to be a joke, and it required a secondary AV to do the heavy-lifting (for any serious protection). But through the years, it has advanced into, well, an advanced protection mechanism that stands on its own. Because of this, an attacker may need to disable it in order to do any work. There are multiple components which could be disabled, one of the most important being real-time monitoring. This particular protection watches for processes and files making unusual changes to the system, such as touching registry keys, mucking with startup locations and making suspicious internet calls. It is easy enough to disable this, and other Defender protections, but these will only last for a little while. Even after disabling them, Microsoft will automatically attempt to re-enable the protections after a period of time (think 15-30 minutes, depending). Disabling Defender is also a big risk, in terms of the defense being alerted to my existence. 

### Expected output

---

Like most defense-evasion techniques, no usable console output is expected from this command. 

### Basic variations

---

Similar to bypassing the PowerShell execution policy, there are many variations to disabling Windows Defender. They tend to fall under one of the following 4 categories: 1) Windows Security Settings, 2) Registry changes, 3) Group Policy updates and 4) PowerShell/Cmd. 

### Prevent + Detect

---

Alert any time you see Windows Defender turned off. This should never happen under normal circumstances. 

### How it is chained

---

Expect this procedure to be followed by a noisy (i.e., noticeable) one. If the hacker is taking on the risk of disabling Defender, the reward should outweigh it. Running a noisy command requires two things to get away with it: 1) disabling of a security tool (Defender, in this case) and 2) disabling of logging/analytics. The first allows the hacker to actually run the noisy command. The second stops the defense from seeing it. Generically, you should look for another Impair Defenses (T1562) procedure to be applied after this one. This could be something like stopping logging agents, disabling and clearing out logging history or other like commands to satisfy #2 above. 
