
# Patch Windows ETW Event Write function

---

#### Metadata

- *Prelude ID*: c463e02d-cbb1-4c2f-9de3-df32e298fe62
- *MITRE Technique ID*: [T1562.001](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1562/001/)

---

### A hacker's perspective

---

According to Microsoft, "Event Tracing for Windows (ETW) is an efficient kernel-level tracing facility that lets you log kernel or application-defined events to a log file." As an attacker, to maintain good Operational Security (OPSEC) during my operation, I might want to prevent any logging of my actions altogether versus having to clean up logs after the fact. One way I can do this on Windows is by patching the Windows ETW EtwEventWrite function to never write the logs associated with my current process. This is particularly powerful when I'm going to be working within a single interactive powershell process or I want to operate without logs being generated when loading in .NET assemblies via methods like `execute-assembly`. 

### Expected output

---

Standard Out response of "Successfully patched ETW Event Write." from the PneumaEX agent. 

### Basic variations

---

Disabling ETW is a simple and effective way to neuter a Blue Team's visibility into your red team operations when they are leverage windows events for monitoring. There are other simple methods within powershell to disable powershell using commands like the one provideded in the tandasat's linked gist: `[Reflection.Assembly]::LoadWithPartialName('System.Core').GetType('System.Diagnostics.Eventing.EventProvider').GetField('m_enabled','NonPublic,Instance').SetValue([Ref].Assembly.GetType('System.Management.Automation.Tracing.PSEtwLogProvider').GetField('etwProvider','NonPublic,Static').GetValue($null),0)`. This is a fundamentally different approach because instead of modifying the ETW event write function, it is actuallly disabling the etw provider for the current session - this will generate an event tracing disabled event in the windows logs. 

### Prevent + Detect

---

Detecting ETW event write function being disabled is non-trivial. The attacker will be loading in `ntdll.dll` and getting the procedure address for `EtwEventWrite` before calling VirtualProtect on that memory segment to allow the current user to write to that memory segment. Once that memory is written to, the attacker may or may not set the memory back to its original permissions. In a tool like splunk you can set up a sequence of events and monitor for that overall chain of library loads with calls to virtual protect. For powershell variants, powershell script block logging would catch the initial script executing and you would also be able to see an ETW event write disabled event (Event ID 8). 

### How it is chained

---

An adversary will likely could ETW disabling with AMSI disabling as a way to allow arbitrary script and binary executables in an interactive powershell session. Once those logging mechanisms are disabled, the attacker will likely proceed with more execution via powershell to perform local and remote discovery (T1562.001|T1059.001|T1069.001|T1069.002). 
