
# Unhook ntdll.dll EDR hooks via remapping

---

#### Metadata

- *Prelude ID*: ca36bfb9-f23d-474f-ae7f-484d510ba710
- *MITRE Technique ID*: [T1562.001](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1562/001/)

---

### A hacker's perspective

---

Ever since Windows introduce Kernel Patch Protection (KPP), modern Enterprise Detection and Response (EDR) vendors had to rework their products as they could no longer modify the kernel to detect attackers. The strategy that most vendors use is injecting their EDR product DLL into new processes which allows them to hook the exported functions in libraries loaded by the current process. So what I can do is analyze those export functions, see which functions are modified by the EDR product, and remove the modifications! Because the libraries are loaded into the current process (which we obviously have permissions to), we can manipulate the loaded modules as we see fit. 

### Expected output

---

A success message will print to standard out: "Successfully remapped ntdll.dll in the current process. EDR has been unhooked." 

### Basic variations

---

This is a relatively niave approach to unhooking the in-memory library module. In this case, we are literary loading and remapping the entire ".text" section of the in-memory library with what exists in the on-disk version of the file. We aren't applying an intelligent approach, like actually analyzing which functions are hooked, then unhooking them. Modern attackers will actually avoid unhooking the functions altogether by including their own System Call definitions in the malware they write. There are a few tools like SysWhispers and SysWhispers2 by the Outflank team which enable developers to generate and include SysCall stubs directly in their payloads. 

### Prevent + Detect

---

EDRs are now starting to monitor the callback functions from the kernel. This means that if an attacker has unhooked a function, the EDR could still potentially detect that the function was called and had not been analyzed; that's most likely malicious. This particular technique can be detected by monitoring (in SysMon for example) for FileReads on important DLLs (like ntdll.dll). 

### How it is chained

---

EDR bypass methods are going to proceed several different kinds of tactics. It just makes senses for attackers to be as stealthy as possible and to minimize the risk of their operation being exposed; Operational Security (OPSEC) is incredibly important. 
