
# Disable SysMon (driver)

#### Metadata

- *Prelude ID*: d9b28a18-60b0-4299-a899-bd48be930e95
- *MITRE Technique ID*: [T1562.001](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1562/001)

### A hacker's perspective

Many defenders rely on SysMon for granular end-point telemetry because it is freely available and effective configurationsexist online; a good SysMon setup can catch a large number of adversary actions. So we want to be able to neuter thatcapability as quickly as possible when attacking a system. Disabling SysMon will require Administrative privileges, asit requires unloading Minifilter drivers from the kernel filter manager. Instead of disabling SysMon immediately, we shouldfirst actually look for and review the SysMon configuration on the target system. In all likelihood there will be somefile and folder exclusions in the configuration, and we can leverage those blindspots to operate from.

### Expected output

No standard out will be produced, but the SysmonDrv Minifilter will be disabled.

### Basic variations

There are a few ways to disable SysMon on a target. In this instance, the Minifilter driver is unloaded as a means tocripple SysMon, but it is also possisble to simply uninstall with `sysmon.exe -u`. Alternatively, update or delete theexisting SysMon configuration to avoid detection using `sysmon.exe -c sysmonconfig-export.xml`.

### Prevent + Detect

Create detections for any attempts to unload the SysmonDrv Minifilter or attempts to uninstall Sysmon in general. MonitorSysMon Event ID 23 (FileDeletion) and Event ID 11 (FileCreate) on the system's Sysmon configuration XML file in orderto detect deletion or over-writing of the Sysmon configuration file. Event ID 5 (Process terminated) alerts against theSysmon process would also indicate potential adversary behavior. If there are folder and file exclusions in the sysmonconfiguration, consider setting up a Canary that would aid in detecting adversaries attempting to operate in blind spotsof the configuration. For example, store a password file or generic configuration file that contains passwords in oneof those locations. If you get any Windows event ID 4656 and 4663 associated with the file, it is likely malicious.

### How it is chained

The attacker has administrative access at this point and disabling Sysmon would enable them to operate more freelywithout being detected. After the adversary unloads the filter driver they might attempt to escalate privileges to systemthen dump credentials from lsass process memory (T1543.003|T1003.001). An attacker might also start performing morelocal file discovery and being staging data for eventual exfiltration (T1083|T1074.001|T1071.001).
