
# Enumerate AD trust objects

---

#### Metadata

- *Prelude ID*: 02a96c18-f700-482d-88a8-bd311f6c41dc
- *MITRE Technique ID*: [T1482](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1482/)

---

### A hacker's perspective

---

Understanding the layout of a domain is critical to making decisions on what systems to target and where to maneuver in order to achieve my objectives. This AdFind query allows me to poll the Active Directory server for trusted domain objects (TDOs) for the current forest. Often, large corporations will have multiple forests and sub-domains as part of a network segmentation strategy or even have trust relationships with third-party companies (see the Target data breach in 2013). I can leverage trusts to potentially pivot into more secure areas of a target networks or persist less secure/less defended areas of the target network. 

### Expected output

---

Text file (file.T1482) containing details on the Trusted Domain Objects that exist on this Active Directory domain. 

### Basic variations

---

Adfind combines the features of several other situational awareness tools (like ldapsearch and dsquery) into a single powerful tool. Built-in PowerShell tools can be used to achieve the exact same objective using commands like: `Get-ADObject –SearchBase "cn=interal,dc=malicious,dc=com" –Filter * -Properties trustType | where {$_.objectClass –eq "trustedDomain"} | select Name,trustTypeThere`, which will similarly grab the TDOs for the target domain. Adversaries will use many variants of this command to find the trust they might be able to leverage. 

### Prevent + Detect

---

Unfortunately, this tool (and the others in this category) largely leverage normal system and network discovery methods used for legitimate traffic on networks. To block this specific ability, look for usage of AdFind by monitoring command line and PowerShell script blocks. Ideally use A/V or EDR solutions to block the hash of the AdFind executable, which would provide some protection against "script kiddie" attackers. Well designed networks with good segmentation can help limit the amount of information a single endpoint can query about the larger network structure. 

### How it is chained

---

Trust discovery is part of an adversary's active remote reconnaisance on a target network. Once they have discovered a trust, it will lead to additional remote system discovery (T1018) and possible network service scanning (T1046) of services on that newly discovered trusted domain/forest. Depending on the type of TDO that is discovered an adversary might look to pivot into another area of the network by leveraging shared and/or trusted resources like SMB/Windows admin shares (T1021.002) 
