
# Discover injectable process

---

#### Metadata

- *Prelude ID*: 05cda6f6-2b1b-462e-bff1-845af94343f7
- *MITRE Technique ID*: [T1057](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1057/)

---

### A hacker's perspective

---

Similar to generic process discovery, finding all injectable processes will look at the process tree on a computer. But instead of returning all processes, this procedure will return only those that the user owns and that are "injectable". This means, as the hacker, I have the correct privileges to replace executable code into a running process. For example, I could inject a keylogger into the a browser process or an implant callback into a desktop application process. This procedure doesn't do these things - it just identifies likely processes I can attempt the injection on. 

### Expected output

---

A list of all vulnerable processes will print to console. 

### Basic variations

---

There are many variations to this type of command. What they will all have in common is that they will rely on built-in operating system calls for listing processes. Examples of this would be the "ps" utility in bash or the win32_process in Windows. 

### Prevent + Detect

---

Similiar to other procedures under this technique, detection can be difficult, as there would be a significant number of false positives. The best thing to look for in this case, would be utilities being called which should only be used by system administrators, such as the gwmi Windows utility. 

### How it is chained

---

This procedure is often grouped with an immediate call to inject some code into one of the discovered processes (T1055). 
