
# Discover IAM users

---

#### Metadata

- *Prelude ID*: 194e16cd-28fc-4779-8581-0732fe8ce08a
- *MITRE Technique ID*: [T1087.004](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1087/004)

---

### A hacker's perspective

---

First thing I want to know when attacking an Amazon Web Services (AD) environment is what credentials do I currentlyhave and what can I access with them. From there, I'll begin enumerating other users and the types of permissions thoseusers have. Once I find a privilege escalation path, I can begin modifying policies, roles, or users to escalate to whateverlevels of persmissions I need.

### Expected output

---

JSON data response that contains user information (ARN, UserId, etc).

### Basic variations

---

This is a fairly basic command that simply enumerates the current user, but it gives important information that can begleaned from the output. Specifically, we have the AWS account ID and the ARN we need to work with when looking forprivilege escalation paths. Run the command `aws iam help` to see the plethora of potential commands that can be run.

### Prevent + Detect

---

Discovery techniques like these are notoriously hard to detect and prevent because they are common commands often run bynormal users and administrators alike. In AWS, it is critical that you enforce least privilege and only give users IAMpolicy permissions they absolutely need to accomplish a task. AWS offers an IAM Access Analyzer that can assist in thecreation of least privilege policies and Rhino Security Lab's Pacu project can be used to evaluate security holes in yourexisting infrastructure.

### How it is chained

---

An attacker will use the credentials found on a workstation for initial access then move into discovery of new accountsto attack. Ideally there will be some kind of IAM configuration vulnerability that the attacker can use to assign newpolicies or update existing policies in order to escalate to administrative access. After that, the attack could persistusing a new set of credentials assigned to a legitimate user (T1078.004|T1087.004|T1484|T1098.001).
