
# Simple registry query

---

#### Metadata

- *Prelude ID*: 2488245e-bcbd-405d-920e-2de27db882b3
- *MITRE Technique ID*: [T1012](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1012/)

---

### A hacker's perspective

---

Reading the Windows registry gives me a complete view on the configuration of the computer system, from local settings to domain-generated ones. There are dozens of "important" registry keys which I may look for. In this most simplistic case, I'm simply checking the registry for the Windows version of the computer. This key can be swapped out for any other key I may be interested in, and as you can see from this procedure, the registry key is a variable for this very reason. A sample registry key looks like: HKLM:\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion. Keys are stored in "hives", which are like buckets. The most common hive is the HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE, often abbreviated as HKLM. This particular hive contains the majority of the configuration information for the software you have installed, as well as for the Windows operating system itself. 

### Expected output

---

The value of the given registry key will print to console. 

### Basic variations

---

Look for two core variations of this procedure: an adversary swapping out which key(s) they're looking for and the way they're executing the query. An adversary may use a PowerShell cmdlet such as Get-ItemProperty or one of dozens of variations from shell code to a programming language on top of Windows System Internals. There are so many variations because many defensive tools, by default, throw warning flags when the registry is queried and adversaries are always looking for new ways to get around them. 

### Prevent + Detect

---

You can play the cat-and-mouse game of coming up with every registry detection rule possible but adversaries are persistent in this area. In practice, reading the registry is informational whereas updating the registry can create significant security holes: so that's where most of your effort should go. However, there are a few areas you can hone in on per detection: look for any references to HKLM or HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE in the logs. 

### How it is chained

---

The natural follow-up to this procedure is an attempt to modify one of the registry keys (T1112). 
