
# Discover domain controller

#### Metadata

- *Prelude ID*: 26c8b8b5-7b5b-4de1-a128-7d37fb14f517
- *MITRE Technique ID*: [T1018](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1018/)

### A hacker's perspective

Accessing a domain controller (DC) - in a Windows network - is the goal of most hackers. The DC is the authorityon a network, and there are usually at least 2 (for redundancy). These computers contain the data forauthenticating users, creating new users and sending registery (system) updates to any computer in the network. IfI can get on a DC, I have a good shot of owning the network. As such, I start off by trying to discover the locationof any DCs; looking for their IP address is the first step.

### Expected output

The hostname (domain.T1018) of the Domain Controller will print to console.

### Basic variations

There are a handful of direct and indirect ways to determine where the domain controller exists within a network.You can run a command-line procedure, like seen above, or you could do a general ping internally (arp scan) tofind all IP addresses which the compromised computer knows about.

### Prevent + Detect

This is difficult to detect, as a computer uses internal DNS to identify and communicate with the DC, and thisis a constant, ongoing check while the computer is turned on.

### How it is chained

Once a DC is identified, an adversary will start sending packets (T1040) to it, looking for things like open ports,known services running, etc. It is also common for an adversary to open a web browser and try browsing toadministrative portals to attempt a login, using any credentials they may have collected.
