
# Enumerate AD groups

---

#### Metadata

- *Prelude ID*: 2738b811-a360-4a4f-af9d-704343ebab4d
- *MITRE Technique ID*: [T1069.002](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1069/002/)

---

### A hacker's perspective

---

I need to figure out what domain groups exist in order to determine what permissions I might or might not have on aparticular domain. Maybe I lucked out and spear-phished a user that is a member of the Domain Administrators and I caneffectively "own" the domain with little effort.  More often than not, however, I will have minimal user persmissionsand I'll need to figure out what groups, and more importantly, the users in those groups - in order to plan how to elevatepersmissions gain further access to the network.

### Expected output

---

Text file (file.T1069) containing details on the group objects that exist on this Active Directory domain.

### Basic variations

---

Adfind combines the features of several other situational awareness tools (like ldapsearch and dsquery) into a singlepowerful tool. Built-in Windows tools like net.exe and PowerShell can be used to accomplish the same task. Attackerscan use `net group /domain` to pull groups from command line or `Get-ADGroup -Filter *` in PowerShell.

### Prevent + Detect

---

Unfortunately, this tool (and the others in this category) largely leverage normal system and network discovery methodsused for legitimate traffic on networks. Monitoring command line and PowerShell script blocks can help tie this commandto other activity that might help identify it as malicious. Block the AdFind.exe binary using end-point Anti-Virus orEnd-point Detection and Response platforms.

### How it is chained

---

Attackers enumerate active directory groups as part of their typical operations. Typically it is used to begin identifyingprivilege escalation pathways, possibly via group policy modification (T1484) or valid domain accounts (T1078.002).
