
# Find deletable dirs

---

#### Metadata

- *Prelude ID*: 30732a56-4a23-4307-9544-09caf2ed29d5
- *MITRE Technique ID*: [T1082](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1082/)

---

### A hacker's perspective

---

I will often look for files which are deletable if I'm planning something very malicous. Usually, I have two optionsin mind: I either way to actually delete the files or I'm looking to encrypt each one in a ransomware attack.For the latter case, if I have permission to delete the file, it means I also have permission to create anencrypted copy of the file and delete the original. I will expect a large number of files to be returned fromrunning this procedure, because most computer users have acces to a wide array of system files.

### Expected output

---

The absolute directory paths (directory.T1082) to any deletable directories will print to console.

### Basic variations

---

Note how this procedure only looks in the active user's home directory. This is a basic variation of thisprocedure in order to not return too many results. There are also a handful of switches you can see in some ofthe above *nix variations, such as looking only for deletable directories (not files) as a way to limit thevolume of returned results. The largest variation you are likely to see however is centered around permissions. Inthis case, the procedure looks for files owned by the user or group. In other variations, the adversary may lookfor different types of permissions.

### Prevent + Detect

---

Any shell command filtering on permissions is likely up to no good. Some sysadmins may run this but it's acommand that is likely few and far between. If a find command is run in conjunction with one of the chainedprocedures described below, that is the moment to respond and shut the process(es) down.

### How it is chained

---

An adversary is likely to follow this procedure up with either a command to start deleting all found files (T1485)or a command to start encrypting each found file (T1486).
