
# View admin shares

---

#### Metadata

- *Prelude ID*: 530e47c6-8592-42bf-91df-c59ffbd8541b
- *MITRE Technique ID*: [T1135](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1135/)

---

### A hacker's perspective

---

Windows hides directories ending with $, which indicate an admin share directory. These directories are used to host files useful for remote management. Think of these as a USB drive every computer in the network can access. Understanding where these drives are located and getting a list of files on them is super important - as this is generally where I'll find network maps, plain-text passwords, infrastructre-as-code details (Ansible/Terraform) and more valuable data. Because these directories are hidden by default, most sysadmins do not lock them down. 

### Expected output

---

The absolute directory path (directory.T1135) to any found admin drives will print to console. 

### Basic variations

---

Viewing admin shares is the same as viewing any other directory, you can do it from a command line or from a file window, assumming GUI access. Checking the Server Message Block (SMB) is a common variation because SMB is a protocol which sits right on top of the Windows file system. 

### Prevent + Detect

---

Like many other discovery techniques, this procedure is tough to detect. However, one good detection technique is to detect any time a non-administrator accesses a shared drive ending in $. This would typically indicate someone up to no good - insider threat or adversary. A better solution entirely is to ensure nothing of value is stored on these shared drives. 

### How it is chained

---

Immediately following the collection of shared drives, an adversary is likely to copy the entire directory to a staged directory for exfiltration (T1074). Alternatively, the adversary may open each file and determine which ones are of value and which are not (T1083). Depending on the file extensions in the directory, they are likely to use a tool like grep to search for keywords in the files. 
