
# System processes

---

#### Metadata

- *Prelude ID*: 5a39d7ed-45c9-4a79-b581-e5fb99e24f65
- *MITRE Technique ID*: [T1057](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1057/)

---

### A hacker's perspective

---

This is always one of the first discovery procedures I execute. Why? It's benign, basically 0% likely to get caught and it gives me a full picture of what is running on the computer at this moment in time, like a snapshot. There are limited malicious actions I can take immediately, but this gives me a good idea of what I'm working with out of the gate. And sometimes, I'm surprised by what applications I find running. 

### Expected output

---

A large list of processes should print to console, showing full process information such as PID, process name and owner. 

### Basic variations

---

This procedure can take on inumerable variations. Simple examples will add filters on process name or owner, using built-in utilities such as grep. For example, an adversary could run this command to return only processes with the name Chrome in the name: "ps aux | grep Chrome". There are also several programs, such as PSTools on Windows, that work with system processes and can be leveraged to easily dump a list of all (or a filtered list) of active processes. 

### Prevent + Detect

---

Process discovery is benign. Because of this, strict detection rules should be avoided, as the amount of false positives will be high. Instead, it is recommended you collect syslogs on all computers and forward them to a centralized logging system (such as ELK or Splunk). From there, you can passively scan for computers executing this technique. 

### How it is chained

---

After running this command, an adversary may attempt to stop a running process (T1489), fork bomb the computer: force a process to self-replicate until the computer crashes (T1529), inject code into a running process, helpful for hiding a reverse-shell callback, upgrade privledges from a user process to an administrator one (T1055), start a new process with a duplicate name of an existing one, to hide in plain sight (T1564). 
