
# Enumerate AD computer objects

---

#### Metadata

- *Prelude ID*: 5b24eef2-7a7f-4d34-8cab-e588074c59bc
- *MITRE Technique ID*: [T1018](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1018/)

---

### A hacker's perspective

---

Understanding the layout of a domain is critical to making decisions on what systems to target and where to maneuver in order to achieve my objectives. This AdFind query allows me to poll the Active Directory server for computer objects in the domain, which provides situational awareness of what computers might exist on the network. 

### Expected output

---

Text file (file.T1018) containing details on the computer objects that exist on this Active Directory domain. 

### Basic variations

---

Adfind combines the features of several other situational awarness tools (like ldapsearch and dsquery) into a single powerful tool. There are a myriad of options for enumerating Active Directory using the tool. In this instance, additional query elements could be added to the -f flag in order to trim the results and look for specific systems or the target category could specify "person" for all person objects. 

### Prevent + Detect

---

Unfortunately, this tool (and the others in this category) largely leverage normal system and network discovery methods used for legitimate traffic on networks. Monitoring command line and powershell script blocks can help tie this command to other activity that might help identify it as malicious. Well designed networks with good segmentation can help limit the amount of information a single endpoint can query about the larger network structure. 

### How it is chained

---

Following this command, an attacker might continue to enumerate the domain trusts (T1482) or continue with remote system discovery (T1018) in order to continue building a map of what the target network looks like. The attacker has likely completed local enumeration and will be looking to move laterally, ideally via legitimate methods like SMB/Windows admin shares (T1021.002) or WinRM (T1021.006) with legitimate credentials. 
