
# Permission Groups Discovery

---

#### Metadata

- *Prelude ID*: 5c4dd985-89e3-4590-9b57-71fed66ff4e2
- *MITRE Technique ID*: [T1069](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1069/)

---

### A hacker's perspective

---

Most of the time, groups are more or less the same, network-to-network. What I'm generally looking for when I run this procedure is, do I have administrator privileges? If yes, I know I can do virtually anything on the system with no effort. If no, which is most of the time, I know that I'll be somewhat limited in what I can do. If I have compromised a Linux machine, depending on the distribution, I may be looking for sudo or wheel groups whereas on Windows I'm looking for Administrator. 

### Expected output

---

A list of all permission groups available on the computer will print to console. 

### Basic variations

---

There are 3 sub-techniques, or more specific alternatives, of this technique: local, cloud and domain. This procedure is specifically looking for local groups which exist on the computer the command is run on. 

### Prevent + Detect

---

Listing permission groups is an odd command for the average user to run but it is benign, causing no ill effects when executed. You should avoid triggering alerts when this procedure if found but it should be saved to centralized logging so you can look one-by-one at the use-cases, as there should be a low volume of uses. 

### How it is chained

---

This procedure is often grouped with a command to identify the local users, to see what accounts exist on the box and a command to discovery processes (T1087|T1057), so an adversary can match up privledges of the local user with the processes running. The goal of this is to identify if they already have the privledges to execute specific commands, techniques under the credential access tactic. If an adversary can determine the active user belongs to a group with administrator privs, they can then attempt to dump - or collect - credentials stored in protected areas of the computer. 
