
# Application window discovery

---

#### Metadata

- *Prelude ID*: 5c65eec8-4839-4713-a4e1-86b2e75d1927
- *MITRE Technique ID*: [T1010](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1010/)

---

### A hacker's perspective

---

If I compromise a workstation - essentially an individual user's computer - it means it is turned on and there islikely a person either using it, or coming back to it soon. This means there are application windows open, suchas browser tabs, video calls, messaging apps, etc. By scanning the open apps periodically, I earn two valuablepieces of information: collection of the user's behaviors/habits and the ability to spy.

### Expected output

---

A list of open application names should print to console.

### Basic variations

---

Filtering is the biggest variation on this procedure. It can be filtered to view all open applications on thecomputer - or it can be filtered to show only browsers or messaging apps or really anything else you may beinterested in seeing.

### Prevent + Detect

---

This particular procedure uses a variety of built-in PowerShell cmdlets, which makes it difficult to detect, asit will blend into normal computer usage nicely. However, if this procedure is executed as an Administrator, thatis a likely sign of malice.

### How it is chained

---

After running this command, an adversary may attempt to: spy on found applications or browser tabs (T1185), injectcode into one of the found applications to take control of it or extract sensitive data (T1055), drop a keyloggeron the computer to start tracking everything the computer user types (T1056.001), or compare software versions ofrunning applications to known vulnerabilities to see if there is a known exploit available (T1518.001).
