
# Active network connections

#### Metadata

- *Prelude ID*: 638fb6bb-ba39-4285-93d1-7e4775b033a8
- *MITRE Technique ID*: [T1049](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1049/)

### A hacker's perspective

This is a classic attack procedure after compromise. Netstat is like a utility knife on computer systems: it hasseveral different & distinct uses. It stands for network and statistics after all. For this specific procedure,netstat is used to determine what connections the host computer has to internal and external machines. It will showboth the source and destination IP:PORT information. My first value from running this is to build a network map ofwhat computers this one is talking to. Secondarily, I will gain an understanding of the firewall rules withouthaving to actually run a command against the firewall.

### Expected output

A large list of ip addresses (ip.T1049) and used ports showing connections will print to console.

### Basic variations

Netstat itself has a number of "switches", or parameters, which will adjust what is being searched. A few popularones are looking for UDP connections vs TCP, viewing active vs inactive connections, viewing internal vs externalconnections, etc. Outside of netstat variations, alternative tools are also prevelant. NMAP, normally a portscanner, can be used for this same purpose. Its also common, and trivial, for an adversary to write their ownprogram in any language to execute this behavior.

### Prevent + Detect

Instead of focusing on detection for this procedure, it would be better to disable the installation of the netstatutility entirely. This is not essential for (nearly) any sysadmin task, so locking it out is an easier approach.

### How it is chained

Once an adversary understands what connections are active/established, they'll chain this to replace a connectionwith a malicous one (T1574), start a new connection to a command-and-control (C2), blending into what is alreadythere/allowed, stop a process, such as a centralized logging agent or distributed antivirus client (T1489).
