
# Check if specific patch is installed

#### Metadata

- *Prelude ID*: 68d15281-f253-402e-8410-792c55b1f5dc
- *MITRE Technique ID*: [T1082](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1082/)

### A hacker's perspective

There are numerous proof-of-concept exploits available on the internet for various operating systems. For Windows,Microsoft typically pushes out those patches on "Patch Tuesday" which is the second Tuesday of each month. Occasionallythere are certain vulnerabilities that require Out-of-Band cumulative updates; as an attacker I can watch those patches,track the KB numbers, and check systems for that particular patch. In the case of PrintNightmare, if a system is missingKB5004945 then we can try to exploit the location Printer Spooler to escalate privileges to NT AUTHORITY/SYSTEM.

### Expected output

If the KB is missing from the target system, you will get a JSON blob formatted as {"NotInstalled": "KB5004945"}. Ifthe patch is installed, no output is generated.

### Basic variations

This particular approach uses Component Object Model (COM) Objects to create an Update Searcher that can list all installedpatches and updates. Other common techniques are using `Get-HotFix` and `wmic qfe list brief`; the downside of thesevariations however is that they use the Win32_QuickFixEngineering WMI class which doesn't return all of the updates.

### Prevent + Detect

As with other simple (non-malicious) script blocks, it is difficult to detect and prevent these queries. Focus on othercomponents of the adversary's kill chain that involve more explicitly malicious behavior.

### How it is chained

An attacker looking at patch levels is hunting for potential exploitation paths for privilege escalation, credential access,and more. In the kill chain for PrintNightmare, this TTP is used to determine if a patch is missing. If the patch ismissing, we ingress several payloads and install a malicious driver that launches rundll32 to start a Pneuma DLL(T1082|T1105|T1104|T1068) (T1012|T1105|T1104|T1068).
