
# UAC Status

---

#### Metadata

- *Prelude ID*: 7c42a30c-c8c7-44c5-80a8-862d364ac1e4
- *MITRE Technique ID*: [T1082](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1082/)

---

### A hacker's perspective

---

When I want to create persistence on a computer, I'll often look to create an always-on process in the form of a new Windows service which keeps my agent running at all times, and starts it when the computer boots up. However, creating a new service is often an Administrator duty and the user will be notified if I try to do it before bypassing UAC. I could just bypass UAC to start - even if it is already disabled - but because this could be a noisy (i.e., detectable) action, I'll want to dip my toe in the water and check real quick. If UAC is already disabled, no need to re-disable and draw attention to my presence. If UAC is enabled, I'll need to select from one of a few dozen variations of UAC bypass at my disposal. It works to my advantage that Windows does not patch UAC bypass because they do not consider it a security vulnerability. 

### Expected output

---

None. This command will not output any usable standard out. 

### Basic variations

---

There are many variations to check if UAC is enabled. The most common is from the Windows Control Panel, where you can enable/disable and view the status. Alternatively, you can query the EnableLUA registry key to see if it is 0 (disabled) or 1 (enabled). 

### Prevent + Detect

---

As a basic discovery procedure, getting UAC status is not a malicious action. However, because it is a rare PowerShell command that a normal user wouldn't typically execute, you could log and detect any of the commands involving UAC to look at manually, as these should be low in volume. To reduce the false positives, you could eliminate the system administrator's computers from your logging, who are the most common users to execute this procedure in a non-malicious way. 

### How it is chained

---

Depending on what this procedure returns, if UAC is enabled, you should expect to see a call to bypass UAC (T1088), using one of the many variations that exist there. If UAC is not enabled, you'll likely see an Administrator-level command executed, likely the installation of a new Windows service (T1543.003) which requires a user to confirm the action - but with UAC disabled, the hacker can accomplish this without notifying the user. 
