
# Collect ARP details

---

#### Metadata

- *Prelude ID*: 85341c8c-4ecb-4579-8f53-43e3e91d7617
- *MITRE Technique ID*: [T1018](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1018/)

---

### A hacker's perspective

---

Address Resolution Protocol (ARP) is a communication protocol available for computers to talk to other computers.An ARP scan "sniffs" local traffic (connections) to determine who a computer is talking to on the local network.Comptuers often send packets of data across a local network in order to let other machines know who they are. Thishelps computers know which "computer" is acting as the router, which IP addresses are supporting wireless printersand more. For these reasons, this is an invaluable procedure for an adversary. In a quick, passive scan, I cansee who and what is around the machine I'm on. The biggest thing I'm looking to get is a list of local IPaddresses, mapped to what type of device is behind it.

### Expected output

---

A collection of ip addresses (ip.T1018) will print to console, representing the local network the computer is aware of at the moment.

### Basic variations

---

ARP is a utility that is built into most modern computer systems, so executing it directly is known as Living offthe Land (LotL). This means not requiring adding additional software to a computer to execute a command. That said,some system administrators block the use of arp. In that case, other port scanning or utility tools, like NMAP ornetstat, can be used to do this scan. But more likely, an adversary will write a custom Python or shell script toconduct the scan.

### Prevent + Detect

---

Because of the wide array of normal variations of arp scans - and that it is a Living off the Land procedure - youmay have trouble detecting this procedure.

### How it is chained

---

After conducting this procedure, an adversary is likely to attempt an active scan against one of the IP addressesfound (T1046), attempt a lateral movement technique to pivot into one of the found machines, attempt anexploit against one of the found machines, such as an attack on a printer to steal any stored credentials,start a network sniffer to continously monitor new connections being made (T1040), navigate to any web portals in abrowser, of machines found which are likely to have a website (T1016).
