
# Create a new Azure user

---

#### Metadata

- *Prelude ID*: 8b32fca8-388f-465b-bf5d-f66858927603
- *MITRE Technique ID*: [T1087.004](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1087/004)

---

### A hacker's perspective

---

Listing the existing users in the Azure Active Directory (AD) environment is a simple discovery technique that provides a wealth of information about the "who" of an organization. Once you have that understanding, it might make sense to stage a persistence account in that AD environment that matches the structure of the accounts you've discovered. Make it blend in well, and if the defense is monitoring, you have a simple persistence mechanism with minimal effort. 

### Expected output

---

JSON data response that contains the metadata associated with the new user account that was created. 

### Basic variations

---

Instead of creating a new user, the attacker might decide it makes more sense to update the password of a valid account to a password of their choosing. That decision is largely dependent upon the context of the situation and what makes the most sense to blend in to the target environment. 

### Prevent + Detect

---

As with standard (non-Azure) Active Directory environments, it is possible to monitor windows event logs for Event ID 4720 which is the creation of a new user. Ensure you have Log Analytics integration enabled for Active Directory and collect that data, especially data associated with Administrative accounts that have the ability to perform list/create/etc actions in the Active Directory environment. 

### How it is chained

---

As we explored during the this challenge, an attacker is going to use this discovery step to learn about the users in the domain, how those accounts are structured, and what looks normal for that environment. They might then look for privilege escalation routes (if they don't have administrative access to the Azure AD environment) in order to create persistence in the Azure AD environment (possibly by creating accounts or modifying accounts). Ideally the attacker is able to identify AD trust relationships with the Azure environment so they can pivot into an organizations on-premises environment (T1087.004|T1078.004|T1136.003|T1534). 
