
# Identify Firewalls

---

#### Metadata

- *Prelude ID*: 8c06ebf8-bacf-486b-bd77-21ba8c5a5777
- *MITRE Technique ID*: [T1518.001](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1518/001)

---

### A hacker's perspective

---

This is a big one - and one of the first techniques I execute when I compromise a system. Understanding the security on a computer (in general) will automatically help me understand what will and won't work. Understanding common defensive solutions is helpful, so I can make these decisions automatically, otherwise I need to pause and research what I find, which takes valuable time. When I execute this procedure, I learn what firewall product is installed the computer. I mainly use this information to know what type of agent communications are likely to work, such as UDP, TCP or HTTP callbacks. 

### Expected output

---

None. This command will not output any usable standard out. 

### Basic variations

---

There are a lot of ways to determine the firewall on a computer. Opening a terminal and executing a check like this procedure is one way, but it's likely more common (on Windows) to just open the Applications and view the installed programs. Likewise, on Linux or MacOS you can just list (ls) the Applications directory and manually note if you see a firewall product. Most of the time, if one exists, it is turned on. 

### Prevent + Detect

---

Depending on how this procedure is executed, you can employ detection. If the user simply looks at installed/running apps, no detection will be effective. However, if the user executes a "Get-WmiObject" PowerShell cmdlet, with a parameter (-Class) of AntiVirusProduct, there is a strong chance it is a malicious action. Even among system administrators, this would be a pretty rare occurence. 

### How it is chained

---

Adversaries running this procedure will likely run similar procedures under this technique (T1518), to identify other security measures, such as which antivirus is installed or if there are centralized logging agents running on the computer. After executing this technique, any number of procedures could be in play. 
