
# USB Device Discovery

---

#### Metadata

- *Prelude ID*: 9b007f62-daa1-44bd-a57d-00c5315ec6fe
- *MITRE Technique ID*: [T1120](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1120/)

---

### A hacker's perspective

---

This has become of less use in recent years, as cloud storage solutions have lessened the use of USB drives. Thisis especially true on newer MacOS systems which don't even ship with a USB port! That said, it is stillworthwhile to check if there are any USB sticks plugged in. Most of the time, if there is a drive plugged in, itmeans there is something valuable on it, as people don't tend to put junk on removable drives. Usually what I'llfind here (ignoring keyboards and mice) are sensitive files of some sort.

### Expected output

---

A list of mounted drives (directory.T1120), which look like directory names, will print to console.

### Basic variations

---

There are only a handful of ways to execute this sort of system call but that doesn't make it any easier to catch.See detection.

### Prevent + Detect

---

Really the best mitigation to this technique is to block USB access on a computer entirely. Because of cloud storageand shared drives, most organizations can get away with disabling the USB ports on a computer. Outside ofnegating this technique, it also stops hacker's with rubber ducky's (weaponized USB sticks) in their tracks.

### How it is chained

---

If any data (files) are found through this procedure, it is almost always followed by either the copying (staging)of the found files to the main computer storage and/or the exfiltration of the files back to the hacker'scommand-and-control-center (T1074).
