
# Snag broadcast IP

---

#### Metadata

- *Prelude ID*: b6f545ef-f802-4537-b59d-2cb19831c8ed
- *MITRE Technique ID*: [T1016](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1016/)

---

### A hacker's perspective

---

When your computer first connects to a Local Area Network (LAN), it does not have an IP address. It has to connect to the Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP) server to get an IP address. To do so, your computer has to perform a broadcast to a special Broadcast IP address 255.255.255.255 which essentially means every machine on the LAN will receive your request for an IP address. The DHCP server will then respond with an IP address to be assigned to your machine. Broadcasting also allows the machines on a network to auto discover services being offered by various machines on the network. If I am connected to a network - and know the broadcast IP - I can attempt several attacks, related to "spoofing". 

### Expected output

---

A single ip address (ip.T1016) should be in the console, showing where the router exists on the network. 

### Basic variations

---

Every computer system has utilities that allow for quickly looking up local network configurations, such as ifconfig on *nix systems. These utilities can include the broadcast IP address, the local IP address and more. External tools, such as WireShark and netstat can be used to look this information up but that would be overkill in most situations. 

### Prevent + Detect

---

Because of the vast number of packets sent across a local network, discovering hosts, handshaking, etc, there is no suitable detection for this procedure. 

### How it is chained

---

The most likely procedure to follow this one would be around spoofing an IP address on the local network (T1134.004). If an adversary can make other computers in the network think their machine is, say the router, they can redirect traffic through their compromised machine as a "man-in-the-middle" attack. There are many variations of spoofing that will be covered in other courses. 
