
# Identify active user

#### Metadata

- *Prelude ID*: c0da588f-79f0-4263-8998-7496b1a40596
- *MITRE Technique ID*: [T1033](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1033/)

### A hacker's perspective

"who" is a classic "hello world" command. It simply returns the name of the active user, no more, no less.This procedure is often the very first one used post-compromise - because it's important (and curious!) to knowexactly who you just hacked. It's important because in order to look for files owned by the active user orunderstand your session's permissions or locate your password or .. you name it: you need to know the username youjust compromised first.

### Expected output

A list of usernames which are currently logged into the computer will print to console.

### Basic variations

The "who" command has a few aliases such as "w", which return the active user plus additional information. Also,most programming languages support a built-in command to access the active user.

### Prevent + Detect

One "secret" for detection is to log and alert (lightly!) any time the traditional "who" command is executed froma command line, regardless of the operating system. Why? If you are the legit user of a computer, you don't needto look up your own name. Most cases of this procedure in the wild are malicious - or they're sysadmins whoshould not be doing something (i.e., they remote accesses someone else's machine).

### How it is chained

This procedure is usually among the first commands executed by an adversary. There is no natural procedures whichfollow it but you can expect at some point the username will be referenced in upcoming procedures, such as listingall files in user-owed directories (T1083).
