
# Find local users

---

#### Metadata

- *Prelude ID*: c1cd6388-3ced-48c7-a511-0434c6ba8f48
- *MITRE Technique ID*: [T1087.001](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1087/001/)

---

### A hacker's perspective

---

Similar to finding the active user, finding all local accounts on a machine gives me a good idea of where and what I should be looking for. Most of the time, on a compromised workstation (laptop), the only usable local user is the active user account. On servers however, there are often a multitude of users. I'm generally looking for accounts that I can iterate over to look in home directories and capture usernames. My best case scenario is finding an old user account that I can take over without anyone suspecting. Creating a new user account on a system/network is pretty visible, whereas scooping up an unused account can fly under the radar. 

### Expected output

---

A list of all usernames which can log into the computer are printed to console. 

### Basic variations

---

There are many ways to execute this procedure. An adversary can directly query the information from the system or network, or they can indirectly get it by accessing a file which would contain all user accounts (like the /etc/passwd file on *nix machines). 

### Prevent + Detect

---

There are no good detection rules which will also have low false positive rates. The best action a defender can take is to ensure no inactive accounts exist on any systems and the Principle of Least Privilege is followed. This principle states that a subject should be given only those privileges needed for it to complete its task. If a subject does not need an access right, the subject should not have that right. 

### How it is chained

---

Similar to finding the active user, there are any number of procedures which could follow this one, logically. However, there are two common tactics an adversary is looking to achieve through running this specific procedure: Are there accounts that are under-utilized that can be taken over (T1087)? Do any of the accounts have access that the current user does not have? On Linux adversaries will be looking for users with "sudo-less" access, meaning they can drop to root access without a password. This is a common shortcut sysadmins use to avoid the hassle of typing long passwords. 
