
# Discover system services

---

#### Metadata

- *Prelude ID*: c6607391-d02c-44b5-9b13-d3492ca58599
- *MITRE Technique ID*: [T1007](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1007/)

---

### A hacker's perspective

---

First, it's good to understand the difference between a process and a service. The former manifests itself in an application that you directly interact with, like your web browser or your IM client. A service doesn't abide by the same rules, and it generally runs outside of your direct interaction — always-on antiviruses, your system clock, things like that. This is an important distinction because I look for services to see what is "always" running on the computer. These usually indicate important applications and I usually want to either turn one off, manipulate one (inject my own code) or start a new one. I could start a process in the background, using nohup or another utility, but these are like eyesores to sysadmins, vs a service which I can give an arbitrary, important sounding name, like SecurityCenter or Logger. 

### Expected output

---

A list of system services and corresponding information about each will print to console. 

### Basic variations

---

To get a list of the system services, the easiest place is the command prompt, using one of the variations in this procedure. Alternatively, services can be found through the Windows control panel or search bar or on a MacOS in System Preferences > Keyboard > Shortcuts > Services. Weird location but Apple ties keyboard shortcuts to services, hence why the services themselves are found here. 

### Prevent + Detect

---

The same general rules around detection for discovering processes applies to services: it is difficult to detect with few false positives, so it's better to focus on detecting a chained attack which includes listing the services. 

### How it is chained

---

After running this command, an adversary may attempt to stop a running service, such as antivirus, in order to do some malcious work, add malicious code to the config file of an existing service and restart it, create and start a new service, mimicking the name of another one to blend in (T1562|T1496|T1489). 
