
# Enumerate AD Organizational Units

#### Metadata

- *Prelude ID*: d30692dd-779f-4a40-b947-de23dabbb033
- *MITRE Technique ID*: [T1482](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1482/)

### A hacker's perspective

Understanding the layout of a domain is critical to making decisions on what systems to target and where to maneuverin order to achieve my objectives. This AdFind query allows me to poll the Active Directory server for the organizationalunits (OU) within the domain structure, which provides situational awareness of how the domain is structured.

### Expected output

Text file (file.T1482) containing details on the Organizational Units that exist on this Active Directory domain.

### Basic variations

Adfind combines the features of several other situational awarness tools (like ldapsearch and dsquery) into a singlepowerful tool. There are a myriad of options for enumerating Active Directory using the tool. In this instance, additionalquery elements could be added to the -f flag in order to trim the results and look for organizational units or the targetcategory could specify "person" for all person objects.

### Prevent + Detect

Unfortunately, this tool (and the others in this category) largely leverage normal system and network discovery methodsused for legitimate traffic on networks. Monitoring command line and powershell script blocks can help tie this commandto other activity that might help identify it as malicious. Well designed networks with good segmentation can help limitthe amount of information a single endpoint can query about the larger network structure.

### How it is chained

Following this command, an attacker might continue to enumerate the computer systems (T1018) inside the OU or the groupsinside the Active Directory structure (T1069.002). The attacker has likely moved on from local enumeration and will belooking to move laterally, ideally via legitimate methods like SMB/Windows admin shares (T1021.002), WinRM (T1021.006),and service execution (T1569.002) methodologies.
