
# Enumerate AD person objects

#### Metadata

- *Prelude ID*: e44a39ce-0651-3ddd-8f05-f83aa2ffd657
- *MITRE Technique ID*: [T1087.002](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1087/002/)

### A hacker's perspective

One of my first steps will be enumerating user objects in Active Directory, along with the computer objects. User objectsreveal additional targeting information that I can use to propogate through the network. Seeing as I can executea technique like this through a variety of means, it is a low-risk, high-gain step I can take to gain better situationalawareness of the target network. Depending on the AD configuration and Group Policy settings, I might be able to geta list of the administrative users which would be ideal for shaping my privilege escalation strategy.

### Expected output

Text file (file.T1087) containing details on the user objects that exist on this Active Directory domain.

### Basic variations

As with the other techniques leveraging AdFind, there are numerous alternative approaches to grabbing the domain usersfrom the current domain. An attacker could use PowerShell and execute a `Get-ADUser -Filter *` to grab users. Alternatively,the attacker could use the built in net.exe binary and run `net user /domain` to grab user objects from Active Directory.Beyond the "Live off the Land" binaries available to attackers, many post-compromise frameworks offer modules to enumerateActive Directory such as Metasploit's various post-exploitation enumeration modules.

### Prevent + Detect

Unfortunately, this tool (and the others in this category) largely leverage normal system and network discovery methodsused for legitimate traffic on networks. Monitoring command line and PowerShell script blocks can help tie this commandto other activity that might help identify it as malicious.

### How it is chained

Active Directory user object enumeration is usually done alongside Computer object enumeration and permissiongroup enumeration during my active reconnaisance and discovery phase. Following that, I might attemptprivilege escalation through token theft/impersonation (T1018|T1134) if a user with higher permissions has an active sessionon the current system or via legitmate credentials (T1069.002|T1078.002) collected during local discovery.
