
# Password policy

---

#### Metadata

- *Prelude ID*: e82f39e2-56f8-4f19-8376-b007f9ac5f8a
- *MITRE Technique ID*: [T1201](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1201/)

---

### A hacker's perspective

---

This is a niche discovery procedure that is important if I have passwords in hand that I think may be valid but amnot sure, or if I want to search the file system for regex (regular expresson) matches to locate any plain-textpasswords in files. In the past, this type of procedure would have been useful to prepare a brute-force attack,attempting millions of password guesses against a system. Nowadays, this type of attack will usually get caught,as it is very noisy.

### Expected output

---

A structured output containing the password policy for the computer will print to console, usally containing relevant rules to what a password should look like.

### Basic variations

---

There are really only a handful of ways to access the password policies. You could look it up manually, given theright level of access (domain controller, for example) but as an unprivileged user, this procedure lays out thecommon variations.

### Prevent + Detect

---

Depending on what applications are using it, having a monitor on read access to the password policy configurationfiles on local workstations (laptops) is a handy way to detect if someone is up to no good.

### How it is chained

---

After understanding what password requirements are needed, an adversary will likely attempt a brute-force passwordguess against the system itself or a web login portal (T1110) or search the local file system (grep) for wordsmatching the criteria outlined, hoping to find plain-text passwords (T1083).
