
# Get system time

---

#### Metadata

- *Prelude ID*: fa6e8607-e0b1-425d-8924-9b894da5a002
- *MITRE Technique ID*: [T1124](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1124/)

---

### A hacker's perspective

---

Getting the date and time off a compromised computer isn't about the date and time. Obviously, I can check my ownwatch for that. What I'm really after is checking what timezone the user is in - and trying to glean what systemis being used to ensure all networked computers have the same time. On the former, understanding someone's timezonegives me a good idea as to their working hours. If I want to conduct attacks that are risky or CPU-intensive, Ilikely want to wait until the middle of the night, whenever that is. The latter case is more interesting. Mostdomains (networked computers) rely on a Network Time Protocol (NTP) to synchronize date/times. The reason is simple:in order to do things like apply patches and updates, system administrators need to schedule a time. If one computeris showing the wrong date, it may miss a critical patch. This opens up an opportunity however. Because NTP is oftenallowed to bypass the firewall, even on tightened networks, I can locate the NTP configuration file and try tore-route the destination to a server in my control.

### Expected output

---

The full date/time of the computer will print to console.

### Basic variations

---

There are too many variations to count. Think about it; a user can do things like open a browser and Google 'whattime is it?' to get the local date/time. Because of this, just knowing that there are many variations is enough.

### Prevent + Detect

---

While you can detect a date check from the command line, you can't do much with that information alone and it's notgoing to catch all the non-command line requests for date/time.

### How it is chained

---

An adversary will likely attempt to modify the NTP configuration file after checking the date/time for aman-in-the-middle attack (T1557). This isn't a guaranteed next step but it is more likely than not. They may alsoattempt a denial of service attack on the NTP server, as it is likely not under any DDoS protection (T1498).
